Course Guidebook
Law School
for Everyone
Law
Subtopic
Professional
Topic
Professors Edward K. Cheng, Joseph L. Hoffmann,
Molly Bishop Shadel, and Peter J. Smith
PUBLISHED BY:
THE GREAT COURSES
Corporate Headquarters
4840 Westfields Boulevard, Suite 500
Chantilly, Virginia 20151-2299
Phone: 1-800-832-2412
Fax: 703-378-3819
www.thegreatcourses.com
Copyright (c) The Teaching Company, 2017
Printed in the United States of America
This book is in copyright. All rights reserved.
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this
publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording, or otherwise), without the prior written permission
of The Teaching Company.
Table of Contents
I
Table of Contents
Litigation and Legal Practice
Professor Biography..................................... 2
Course Scope........................................... 3
1*
Litigation and the American Legal System.................. 4
2*
Thinking like a Lawyer.................................... 12
3*
Representing Your Client................................. 18
4* Trial Strategy behind the Scenes.......................... 25
5*
Opening Statements: The Moment of Primacy.............. 30
6* Direct Examination: Questioning Your Witnesses........... 36
7*
The Art of the Objection.................................. 43
8* Problematic Evidence.................................... 50
9* Controlling Cross-Examination............................ 57
10* Closing Arguments: Driving Your Theory Home............. 64
11* Understanding the Appellate Process...................... 70
12* Arguing before the Supreme Court........................ 78
Criminal Law and Procedure
Professor Biography................................... 88
Course Scope......................................... 90
Law School for Everyone
II
1*
Who Defines Crimes, and How?........................... 92
2*
Crime and the Guilty Mind............................... 100
3*
Homicide and Moral Culpability.......................... 107
4* The Law of Self-Defense.................................. 117
5*
Federal Crimes and Federal Power....................... 126
6* Cruel and Unusual Punishments.......................... 134
7*
Due Process and the Right to Counsel..................... 141
8* Government Searches and Privacy Rights................. 149
9* The Shrinking Warrant Requirement...................... 156
10* The Fifth Amendment Privilege.......................... 166
11*
Miranda and Police Interrogations........................ 172
12* Plea Bargains, Jury Trials, and Justice..................... 179
Civil Procedure
Professor Biography................................... 188
Course Scope......................................... 189
1*
Procedural Rights and Why They Matter................... 191
2*
Subject Matter Jurisdiction............................. 200
3*
Jurisdiction over the Defendant......................... 208
4* A Modern Approach to Personal Jurisdiction.............. 214
5*
The Role of Pleadings................................... 221
6* Understanding Complex Litigation....................... 229
7*
The Use and Abuse of Discovery......................... 236
8* Deciding a Case before the Trial Ends..................... 242
Table of Contents
III
9* The Right to a Civil Jury Trial............................. 248
10* Determining What Law Applies.......................... 255
11* Relitigation and Preclusion............................... 263
12* Appeals and How They Are Judged...................... 271
Torts
Professor Biography.................................. 282
Course Scope........................................ 283
1*
The Calamitous World of Tort Law........................ 285
2*
Legal Duty to Others.................................... 291
3*
Reasonable Care and the Reasonable Person.............. 298
4* Rules versus Standards of Care........................... 307
5*
The Complexities of Factual Causation.................... 315
6* Legal Causation and Foreseeability....................... 322
7*
Liability for the Acts of Others........................... 332
8* When Tort Plaintiffs Share the Blame..................... 341
9* Animals, Blasting, and Strict Liability..................... 348
10* The Rise of Products Liability............................ 355
11* Products Liability Today................................ 364
12* Punitive Damages and Their Limits....................... 371
Supplementary Material
Bibliography.......................................... 380
Image Credits........................................ 406
DISCLAIMER:
The legal information provided in these lectures is for informational
purposes only and not for the purpose of providing legal advice. These
lectures may not reflect the most current legal developments in any particular
applicable jurisdictions and cannot substitute for the advice of a licensed
professional with specialized knowledge who can apply it to the particular
circumstances of your situation. Use of and access to these lectures do not
create an attorney-client relationship with The Teaching Company or its
lecturers, and neither The Teaching Company nor the lecturer is responsible
for your use of this educational material or its consequences. You should
contact an attorney to obtain advice with respect to any particular legal issue
or problem. The opinions and positions provided in these lectures reflect
the opinions and positions of the relevant lecturer and do not necessarily
reflect the opinions or positions of The Teaching Company or its affiliates.
Pursuant to IRS Circular 230, any tax advice provided in these lectures may
not be used to avoid tax penalties or to promote, market, or recommend any
matter therein.
The Teaching Company expressly DISCLAIMS LIABILITY for any DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
OR LOST PROFITS that result directly or indirectly from the use of these
lectures. In states that do not allow some or all of the above limitations of
liability, liability shall be limited to the greatest extent allowed by law.
Litigation and
Legal Practice
Molly Bishop Shadel, J.D.
2
Professor Biography
Molly Bishop Shadel, J.D.
Professor of Law
University of Virginia
School of Law
Molly Bishop Shadel is a Professor
of Law at the University of Virginia
School of Law, where she teaches
negotiations and advocacy classes
and is a senior fellow at the Center for
National Security Law. She graduated
magna cum laude from Harvard University with an A.B. in English and
American Literature and Language. Professor Shadel earned her J.D. from
Columbia University, where she served as a note editor for the Columbia
Law Review and was a Harlan Fiske Stone scholar. After graduation, she
clerked for Judge Eugene H. Nickerson of the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of New York. Professor Shadel then spent four years as
a litigation associate with the firm Covington & Burling. In 2002, she joined
the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Intelligence Policy and Review,
where she represented the United States on terrorism-related matters before
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Professor Shadel taught oral
advocacy classes at the University of Virginia for a year as a lecturer before
joining the faculty in 2005. She also served as the law school’s director of
public service from 2005 to 2007.
Professor Shadel is the author of Finding Your Voice in Law School: Mastering
Classroom Cold Calls, Job Interviews, and Other Verbal Challenges and
coauthor (with Robert N. Sayler) of Tongue-Tied America: Reviving the Art
of Verbal Persuasion. She is conducting an empirical study of law school
teaching practices and how those methods affect student experiences
and outcomes. Professor Shadel is also a planning faculty member of the
Leadership in Academic Matters program, a biannual, semester-long
leadership course for University of Virginia professors and administrators. ■
Course Scope
3
Litigation and Legal Practice
I
n this series of 12 lectures, you will explore the important roles that
litigation and the adversarial system play in American law. The course
begins with an examination of the American legal system generally,
including the significance of law and lawyers in our history and society.
You will then consider what it means to think like a lawyer, learning about
matters of precedent, textual analysis, inductive and deductive logic, logical
fallacies, and the use of analogy. You will also examine the practical and
ethical issues of the attorney-client relationship, learning why a lawyer might
want to represent a seemingly guilty person, for example, and what a lawyer
should do if a client asks her to break the law. As the course continues, you
will learn about pretrial preparation, jury selection, opening statements,
direct examination, cross-examination, and closing arguments. You will
consider how media coverage and social media can impact what happens
in the courtroom. You will learn about evidence-what types of evidence
might be introduced at trial, how to handle common objections, and how
to address the problems caused by false confessions, mistaken eyewitness
identification, and flawed expert testimony. As you approach the end of the
course, you will begin to examine the appeals process, including the various
procedures, standards of review, and approaches to effective advocacy that
distinguish appellate courts from trial courts. Finally, the course concludes
with an exploration of the United States Supreme Court-its history, its
function, and the unique challenges and opportunities that it presents for
lawyers, clients, and the American people as a whole. ■
Lecture 1
LITIGATION AND THE
AMERICAN LEGAL SYSTEM
L
itigation holds a special role in the American legal system, and learning
about it offers a valuable orientation to the study of law generally.
In this lecture, you will explore why we adopted the particular legal
system we have in this country, how that system works, and why law is
taught in America the way it is.
6
Litigation and Legal Practice
LAW IN AMERICAN SOCIETY
z
z America is a nation of laws. From the very beginning, America has
grappled with the question of how much power the government should
have over the people, and the rules under which people interact with one
another. When America broke away from England in 1776, it famously
rejected the notion that a king gets to make those rules. Instead, the
power of the government and of lawmaking belongs to the people.
z
z When our country was founded, the Founding Fathers were, in essence,
breaking the law. By rebelling against the British monarchy, they were,
in the eyes of England, committing treason. To make the case that
breaking away from England was the right thing to do, the Founding
Fathers wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1776, proclaiming
that “governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers
from the consent of the governed.”
7
Lecture 1- Litigation and the American Legal System
z
z The notion that the people are in charge was an extraordinary idea at
the time our country was founded. Given the number of authoritarian
governments that continue to exist in other parts of the world, it’s still
remarkable today.
z
z After gaining independence, the Founding Fathers began replacing
the legal system they were rejecting with a new one. In 1787, they
drafted the U.S. Constitution, which limited the power of the federal
government and established a system in which the people could undo
everything if they wanted to.
z
z America has continued to be a nation where people question the
laws, challenge them, change them, and rely on them. Our nation is
composed of people who quite often do not agree with one another.
Every election cycle, we take some people out of power and put new
people in charge. Regular citizens are able to be involved with the law,
to influence the shape of the law, simply by voting or raising a claim
in court.
z
z Because of the importance of law to the functioning for our country,
lawyers have long played a prominent role in American society. More
than half of the 45 U.S. Presidents have been lawyers. So are many
members of Congress, most judges, and many prominent leaders in
business and banking.
z
z You will certainly see lawyers at work if you go to a courtroom. But
lawyers are also often the people who lead large corporations or help
them do business or merge with one another. Lawyers also frequently
run our various administrative agencies, which govern things like taxes,
the environment, the Internet, elections, and the financial markets.
8
Litigation and Legal Practice
STRUCTURAL DISTINCTIONS
z
z The American legal system is a common law system, and is derived
from English legal tradition. Some countries, like France, Italy, and
others in continental Europe, have a civil law system. In a civil law
system, written-down rules-often called codes-are the primary basis
of the law. Judges in these systems interpret the code and make sure it is
followed, but their decisions have no lasting authority.
z
z In our common law system, by contrast, written-down laws-we call
them statutes-and judicial decisions are both important sources
of law. What a judge says about the law can be every bit as important
as a statute, and sometimes more so. Yet our judges are also bound
by statutes and by the decisions of other judges who have come
before them.
z
z A common law system checks the power of the legislature, which
creates a statute, because a judge gets to interpret it. It also limits
a judge’s power, however, because he has to follow the rulings of
previous judges. He can’t just make up an outcome according to his
own personal desires.
z
z America’s legal system is also an adversarial system. In an adversarial
system, parties make their best arguments before a judge or jury, and
from the conflict between them, the judge or jury determines the truth
of what happened. This is different from the inquisitorial system used
in some civil law countries. In an inquisitorial system, the judge acts as
an investigator in a case, questioning witnesses and suspects.
LEVELS OF REVIEW
z
z Trial courts are the courts where cases start. At trial, both sides present
evidence to demonstrate what happened in the dispute that brought
them to court. There is a judge who decides what evidence can be
considered and whether the procedural rules are being followed. A trial
can be decided either by a judge or a jury, depending on the type of case.
9
Lecture 1- Litigation and the American Legal System
z
z Many jurisdictions have trial-level courts that hear a wide variety of
cases. These courts are sometimes called general district courts. Some
jurisdictions also have specialized trial courts. For example, a court
system might have a specialized traffic court, a divorce court, or a court
for juveniles.
z
z Legal cases are divided into two broad categories: civil and criminal.
Civil cases involve disputes between private parties. The person who
brings a civil lawsuit is called the plaintiff, and the person who is sued
is called the defendant.
z
z In a criminal case, a person is accused of breaking a criminal law. In
criminal cases, the person against whom the suit is brought is still
called the defendant, but the person bringing the suit is a prosecutor
representing either the state or federal government.
10
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z If a party believes that something has been wrongly decided at trial, he
or she may be able to appeal that issue to an appellate court. The issue
has to be preserved for appeal, however, which usually means that the
attorney has to flag the perceived problem during the trial by objecting
and indicating the nature of the error. In addition, the appeal typically
has to be filed within a certain time period.
z
z In an appellate court, there are no witnesses and no jury, and the parties
do not present evidence. Instead, lawyers argue legal issues to group of
judges, often referred to as a panel. Appellate courts do not rehear all the
facts of a case; instead, they focus on the specific question of law being
appealed to determine whether that question was decided correctly.
z
z If the trial court has made an error, the appellate court may overrule
the trial court’s decision and issue a written opinion about it. If a party
disagrees with an appellate court decision, it may appeal to the ultimate
judicial tribunal of a court system, which is often referred to as the
jurisdiction’s supreme court. That court may overrule or affirm the
appellate court’s decision and issue a written opinion of its own.
FEDERALISM AND PREEMPTION
z
z America has both federal and state laws, and the two are not always
consistent with one another. What might be legal in one state might
not be legal in another, and state laws and federal laws also clash on
occasion. Because we have a dual system of laws, we also have a dual
system of courts-federal and state.
z
z This system again has its roots in the American Revolution. The
framers of our Constitution wanted to limit the power of our federal
government. So our Constitution gives certain powers to the federal
government, but leaves other powers to the states, and it does not
require the states to have laws identical to one another.
11
Lecture 1- Litigation and the American Legal System
z
z Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction, which means they
can only hear certain kinds of cases. They can hear cases that raise
a federal question, which means the plaintiff or prosecutor has alleged
a violation of the U.S. Constitution, a federal law, or a treaty. They can
also hear cases involving disputes between parties from different states.
z
z In addition to state and federal statutes, and the case law written by
judges, laws also comes from constitutions (both federal and state),
from treaties, and from regulations. Regulations are rules made by an
agency at either the state or federal level pursuant to a statute.
z
z The U.S. Constitution preempts any laws established by other
authorities that are inconsistent with the Constitution itself. After the
U.S. Constitution come the laws of the United States-federal laws,
federal common law, and federal regulations-plus federal treaties.
State constitutions, state statutes and court decisions, and state
regulations come under that, followed by regional and local ordinances.
Suggested Reading
<
< Constitution of the United States.
<
< De Tocqueville, Democracy in America.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Does the judicial system occupy the place you think it
should in the balance of powers? If not, why not?
Þ
Þ What is your reaction to our adversarial system? Do you
think this is the best way to get to the truth of a dispute?
12
Lecture 2
THINKING LIKE A LAWYER
T
his lecture addresses a concept that is at the very heart of American
legal education: the idea of thinking like a lawyer. Thinking like
a lawyer means mastering the ability to think actively and critically
about legal doctrine. Once you learn how to do that, you’ll not
only understand the law better; you will also have a better
understanding of how to make an argument, even in
a nonlegal context.
THE POWER OF PRECEDENT
z
z You may have noticed that when you argue with
family members-your spouse or your kids, saythey are rarely persuaded that they must do
something because “that’s the way we’ve always
done it.” But when you are a lawyer making
an argument to a judge, you will find that
if you’re advocating a position that no
other judge has ever adopted, you are
probably going to lose. “That’s the way
we’ve always done it” is a pretty powerful
legal argument. This is the notion of
precedent.
z
z Precedent means following the decisions
that have been handed down in the past.
In a common law system like the one we
have in America, what judges say about
a statute is every bit as important as the
statute itself-the opinion a judge writes
13
Lecture 2- Thinking like a Lawyer
about the statute becomes part of the law, too. Because of this, other
judges deciding a case have to look at both the statute at issue and what
other judges have said about that statute. If the issue has been decided in
the past by the court hearing your case or by a higher court in that same
jurisdiction, then the matter is settled.
z
z Law is fundamentally conservative so that people trying to follow
the law will know what to expect. If the law could change at the mere
whim of a judge, then society would be so unsettled that people would
not know how to behave. Law is also conservative to protect people
from being treated unfairly by judges who don’t like them. Requiring
a judge to follow precedent makes it more likely that the law will be
applied consistently, not according to the whims and prejudices of
individual judges.
z
z Another reason the law is conservative is purely practical: If judges were
asked to decide every legal issue from the beginning in every single
case, the workload would be overwhelming. This may sound terribly
unfair to the parties, but it would be unfair for everyone if the courts
got so bogged down that you couldn’t get a hearing for years and years
because judges were deciding things anew every time.
z
z When a lawyer is reading a judicial opinion, he or she will keep an eye
out for a discussion of precedent. This will usually involve the judge
citing older cases and comparing them to the decision at hand. The
judge will try to explain why the two cases are similar-which means
that the precedent binds the case at hand and dictates its outcome-or
why they aren’t.
z
z Importantly, precedent means that the case has been decided in the
past either by a judge in the same court or by a higher court in the same
jurisdiction. If a case was decided by a court in a different jurisdictionin the state next door, for example-that court’s opinion might be
informative, but it wouldn’t be precedential. Lawyers sometimes talk
about this as being persuasive authority, but not binding authority.
14
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Of primary importance in any case is what the court decided in the
dispute at hand, and why. This is known as the holding of the case.
By contrast, anything the court said that isn’t essential to actually
resolving the matter at hand is called dicta. The holding of the case is
what judges will follow in subsequent cases, and is binding. The dicta,
while informative, is not binding.
z
z If you can find binding authority to support your argument, you are
on firmer ground than if you would be if you were relying on dicta, or
on a secondary source-an academic article written by a law professor,
for example, which no judge is required to follow. If you must rely
on persuasive authority, you will need to be able to articulate why
the authority is credible. The more credible the authority, the more
convincing your argument will be.
TEXTUAL INTERPRETATION
z
z Legal analysis can seem peculiar in the way it emphasizes the exact
words of a statute, constitutional provision, or case. A lawyer must
always pay close attention to the text of the legal rule or the precedent
governing his case. When you make a legal argument, it is not sufficient
to paraphrase the language. Very often, the best legal argument will be
the one that parses the words the most carefully.
z
z Along the same lines, the judicial system is devoted to adhering strictly
to the text of rules. You can see this, for example, in the application
of a filing deadline at a courthouse. It hardly ever matters what the
purpose of the rule was, or if you have a good reason why you didn’t
meet a particular filing deadline. The filing deadline is generally what’s
known as a bright-line rule: the requirements are clearly stated and
inflexible. A bright-line rule is something you see quite a lot in various
laws and legal opinions.
z
z Sometimes, however, the text of a rule is less clear. There are many
examples-most notably those involving interpretation of the U.S.
Constitution-in which a text could be interpreted literally, but isn’t.
Often, one side might rely on the plain meaning of the words in the
15
Lecture 2- Thinking like a Lawyer
text, while the other might look at the purpose of the provision, or how
it fits into other parts of the law. As a lawyer, you might argue based on
the letter of the law, or you might argue the intention behind the law.
Either way, you can’t ignore the text.
LOGICAL REASONING
z
z Lawyers often rely on analogy to make a point. That is, they point out
how a case is similar in some way to some other case, and argue that the
two cases should therefore be decided in the same way.
16
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z To use analogy well, you start by laying out the facts of your case and the
facts of the case you want to compare it to. Then you compare the facts
of the cases. Emphasize the similarities that are relevant, and throw
away the ones that are not relevant. If the cases are similar in central
ways, then they should result in similar outcomes. Of course, you need
to be ready for the likelihood that opposing counsel will challenge your
analogy, arguing that the facts that you called irrelevant actually make
the case that you’re citing inapplicable to the one at hand.
z
z Many legal arguments are based on deductive logic. Reasoning
deductively, you can figure out the right outcome if you identify the
correct legal proposition and apply it to the facts at hand. Aristotle
explained this concept as a syllogism, in which a major premise and
a minor premise point the way to a conclusion (if A and B are true, then
C must be true).
z
z When reading a case, you should try to identify the major premise (the
rule of law governing the case), the minor premise (the facts particular
to your case), and the conclusion (the application of the law to the facts).
You must also be sure that the major premise is true. If it isn’t, then
your conclusion will be flawed.
z
z Some legal arguments are based on inductive logic. Reasoning
inductively means using a number of specific observations to draw
a broad generalization. This can be a useful sort of argument when it’s
difficult to prove something.
z
z If you make an argument based on inductive reasoning, you probably
shouldn’t rely only on personal experiences; instead, you would be wiser
to draw upon a large number of examples from which to generalize. You
would also want to think about how your sample might be criticized.
If, for example, your sample is not representative of the population at
large, your argument might be considered less credible.
17
Lecture 2- Thinking like a Lawyer
Suggested Reading
<
< Hart, The Concept of Law.
<
< Schauer, Thinking Like a Lawyer
<
< Sullivan, Educating Lawyers.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Law schools emphasize teaching students to “think
like a lawyer.” Is this different from the way you are
accustomed to thinking about things, and if so, how?
Þ
Þ One aspect of “thinking like a lawyer” involves putting
aside your own personal reaction to a case, and instead
to focus on issues like precedent. What are the pros and
cons of that idea?
18
Lecture 3
REPRESENTING
YOUR CLIENT
N
o matter whom they are representing, lawyers have dual
responsibilities: to their clients, and to the integrity of justice
system. This lecture explores the important relationship between
attorney and client, including the ethical rules that guide lawyers when
their dual responsibilities come into conflict with one another.
THE IMPORTANCE OF REPRESENTATION
z
z The structure of the American legal system requires that we have
lawyers willing to represent any defendant zealously within the bounds
of the law, no matter what that defendant may have done. Many people
accept that idea in principle, but still can’t stomach the thought of
representing a killer, a swindler, a rapist, a child molester. Such
representation is critical, however-and not only for the client.
z
z America’s is an adversarial legal system. That means we resolve
legal disputes by assigning a lawyer to each side, and leaving
it to the lawyers to ask the right questions, present the proper
evidence, and raise appropriate objections. Judges make sure
that lawyers, jurors, and witnesses are playing their proper
roles, but the lawyers are the ones who shape the substance
of a trial.
z
z The advantage of a system like this is that the parties have
greater incentive than anybody else to gather and present
the evidence that supports their respective views of the case.
If it were up to the judge to develop the factual record, he
19
might not do as thorough a job of it as the parties themselves would do.
Also, a judge asked to gather the evidence might develop a bias in favor
of or against a party before the trial starts. Our system produces a more
complete factual record, and helps the judge remain impartial.
z
z Our system is governed by complex rules, and litigants have to make
many decisions that have long-lasting consequences. A defendant
without a lawyer finds himself at a serious disadvantage. He may not
even know where to start to gather evidence. And even someone who
is not innocent may have had his rights violated-evidence may have
been obtained illegally, or a confession may have been coerced.
z
z To make sure that our system is fair and just, we need good defense
lawyers to test prosecutions and make sure that evidence against
a defendant was obtained lawfully. We want those lawyers
to do the best job possible, because we believe that, through
the clash of two effective advocates, juries will best be able to
determine the truth. If a defendant doesn’t have a lawyer, it’s
more likely that the system will malfunction.
PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT
z
z What if a lawyer thinks that his client
is guilty? Should that make a difference
in how the lawyer represents him?
The answer is a resounding no.
It’s not up to the lawyer to decide
whether the client is guilty or
innocent-that determination is left
to the jury. Otherwise, the lawyer
would be subsuming the role of the
jury without giving his client the
benefit of a fair trial, which is just
the sort of tyranny the Constitution
forbids.
Moreover,
the
lawyer
would also be violating his ethical
obligations to his client.
20
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Most states have adopted some form of the American Bar Association’s
Model Rules of Professional Conduct. Rule 1.3 requires a lawyer to “act
with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client.” The
comment to this rule explains:
A lawyer should pursue a matter on behalf of a client despite
opposition, obstruction or personal inconvenience to the
lawyer, and take whatever lawful and ethical measures are
required to vindicate a client’s cause or endeavor. A lawyer
must also act with commitment and dedication to the interests
of the client and with zeal in advocacy upon the client’s behalf.
z
z When is it okay for a lawyer to make a decision-for example, about
how to respond to an unexpected question from the press concerning
trial strategy-without first consulting with his client? To answer this
question, we turn again to the Model Rules of Professional Conduct.
Rule 1.2 governs the allocation of authority between client and lawyer.
The rule says, in part:
[A] lawyer shall abide by a client’s decisions concerning the
objectives of representation and... shall consult with the client
as to the means by which they are to be pursued. A lawyer
may take such action on behalf of the client as is impliedly
authorized to carry out the representation.... In a criminal
case, the lawyer shall abide by the client’s decision, after
consultation with the lawyer, as to a plea to be entered, whether
to waive jury trial and whether the client will testify.
21
Lecture 3- Representing Your Client
z
z This means that a criminal defendant gets to decide whether to enter
a plea of guilty or not guilty, whether to waive his right to a jury trial,
and whether or not to testify. But his lawyer has the authority to take
the on-the-ground actions necessary to carry out the representation of
his client.
z
z Lawyers on TV and in the movies are often depicted as attack dogs,
and sometimes that’s what a client wants. What should a lawyer do
if a client says, “Be as aggressive as possible in every situation when
representing me?”
z
z Under Model Rule 1.3, the lawyer is required to represent his client
“diligently.” The lawyer must “act with commitment and dedication to
the interests of the client and with zeal in advocacy upon the client’s
behalf.” But that doesn’t mean he has to be unreasonable. It doesn’t
require him to yell, or to refuse reasonable scheduling requests made by
opposing counsel, or to demean other people.
z
z In fact, acting as an attack dog all the time is not a smart strategy. Judges
detest lawyers who squabble over petty things, or who file motion after
motion to make opposing counsel’s life miserable. Over time, you will
lose your good reputation if you are unreasonable.
z
z A lawyer is not just the representative of his client. He is also an officer
of the court-that is, a representative of the legal system as a whole.
The Preamble to the Model Rules of Professional Responsibility makes
this clear:
A lawyer should use the law’s procedures only for legitimate
purposes and not to harass or intimidate others. A lawyer
should demonstrate respect for the legal system and for those
who serve it, including judges, other lawyers and public officials.
While it is a lawyer’s duty, when necessary, to challenge the
rectitude of official action, it is also a lawyer’s duty to uphold
legal process.
22
Litigation and Legal Practice
CLIENT CONFIDENTIALITY
z
z Another important aspect of the attorney-client relationship is the
confidentiality of certain communications between the attorney and
the client. Under Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.6, a lawyer is
prohibited from revealing “information relating to the representation
of a client unless the client gives informed consent, the disclosure is
impliedly authorized in order to carry out the representation,” or the
disclosure is otherwise permitted by the rules.
z
z It is difficult to imagine how any lawyer could properly advise a client if
the client were not free to speak candidly. The attorney-client privilege
protects the client, who benefits from the lawyer’s advice. It also
protects the lawyer, who relies on information from his client to do his
job properly. And it protects society, which has an interest in the fair
administration of justice that, in our adversarial system, depends on
the giving and receiving of competent and informed legal advice.
z
z Are there any circumstances in which a lawyer could disclose things
his client said, even if his client didn’t want him to? Rule 1.6(b)
addresses this question. It says that a lawyer can reveal information in
circumstances like the following:
�To prevent reasonably certain death or substantial bodily harm;
�To keep the client from committing a crime or fraud that is
“reasonably certain” to cause substantial injury to someone else’s
property or financial interests and in furtherance of which the
client used the lawyer’s services, or to rectify it if the client’s already
committed the crime or fraud; or
�To obtain legal advice from another attorney in order to make sure
he is properly complying with the rules, or to help him in a dispute
with the client about the representation.
23
Lecture 3- Representing Your Client
z
z So what if you were a defense lawyer, and your client confessed that he
did it-he committed the crime of which he was accused? Could you
reveal that information? Under Rule 1.6, probably not. An attorney has
an obligation to keep a client’s secrets. If the client said, “I murdered
the victim,” that’s a secret, and it doesn’t fall among the things in Rule
1.6(b) that a lawyer can disclose.
z
z What if the client tells the attorney, “I murdered the victim,” then
decides to testify at his own trial, and on the stand says, “I did not
murder the victim”? The attorney knows that his client’s testimony is
false, but also knows that the confession is protected by attorney-client
privilege. What should the attorney do? If a lawyer’s client, or a witness
called by a lawyer, testifies falsely, the Model Rules of Professional
Conduct require that the lawyer “take reasonable remedial measures” to
correct the perjury-including, if necessary, telling the court about it.
24
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Ethical dilemmas like these also arise in civil lawsuits, where lawyers
are also bound by the same rules governing professional conduct.
Attorneys in civil suits might find themselves struggling with similar
issues-how to manage interpersonal disputes, which strategic calls are
theirs to make, and what to do if they discover that a client is using
their services to perpetrate fraud.
Suggested Reading
<
< Cohen, The State of Lawyer Knowledge.
<
< Harr, A Civil Action.
<
< Model Rules of Professional Conduct Rules 1.3,
1.2, 1.6.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ If you were a lawyer, are there certain defendants you
simply would not represent? Why or why not?
Þ
Þ Would you always want your lawyer to be as aggressive as
possible for you? Are there any downsides to aggression?
25
Lecture 4
TRIAL STRATEGY
BEHIND THE SCENES
I
n some cases, trials are won or lost because of the lawyering that takes
place outside the view of the jury. In this lecture, we will talk about
the things that lawyers do before trial, how a jury is selected, and the
importance of jury instructions.
BEFORE THE TRIAL
z
z A smart lawyer will use the period before trial to gather evidence and
plan for the trial. If you represent the plaintiff in a civil case-the party
who brings the lawsuit-you would be wise to gather evidence well
before you officially file the case. This informal process of gathering
facts might include interviewing your client and other witnesses,
reading documents and reports related to the dispute, and perhaps
consulting with experts who can advise you about your case or testify
in court on particular questions of fact.
z
z A defense lawyer, however, often doesn’t have the opportunity to gather
information before a case is filed. After the case is filed, defense lawyers
gather information using formal discovery methods. They may also file
a number of important pretrial motions.
z
z Discovery is the process by which parties gather facts once a lawsuit
has been filed. The scope of discovery-the breadth of the things you
can ask for-is determined by the rules of the particular jurisdiction
you’re in. Typically, the applicable rule will say that parties may obtain
anything relevant to a party’s claims or defenses.
26
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Discovery results in fairer trials, because it enables lawyers to better
defend their clients. Discovery can also encourage settlement. For
example, if the state shows during discovery that it has a lot of evidence
against a criminal defendant, that defendant might decide to plead
guilty-possibly in exchange for a lighter sentence-rather than go
through a trial he is most likely going to lose.
z
z In civil cases, discovery rules generally permit the filing of
interrogatories, which are another important discovery tool.
Interrogatories are written questions that lawyers use to learn facts
about the case, identify possible witnesses, and learn the location of
useful documents or other relevant items. Interrogatories must be
answered in writing. Answers are given under oath and subject to the
penalty of perjury.
z
z Discovery also includes obtaining documents that might be helpful
to the case. In a civil case, most jurisdictions permit the filing of
a document request, which is a request to a party in the case to produce
identified documents and electronically stored information. The
documents have to be described with reasonable particularity, however,
which means that a document request can’t be a fishing expedition.
z
z Another important part of discovery is the taking of depositions.
A deposition is a question-and-answer session with a potential witness
or, in a civil case, with the plaintiff or defendant. A deposition is taken
under oath, which means the person being questioned must answer
truthfully or be subject to the penalty of perjury. A court reporter
transcribes the proceedings, which are sometimes also videotaped.
z
z Depositions allow attorneys to gather more information about a case.
The scope of what you can ask during a deposition is very broad: you
can ask anything that might be useful to the case, including questions
you couldn’t ask at trial because they might be prohibited by the rules
of evidence. Opposing counsel appears at the deposition to voice
objections for the record, but can rarely prevent the witness from
answering the question.
27
Lecture 4- Trial Strategy behind the Scenes
z
z A deposition is a useful way to test out potential witnesses-you can
see how people are likely to appear on the stand. And deposition
testimony can be used at trial to impeach a witness. If a witness says
one thing at a deposition, and then says another at trial, you can
read or play the deposition for the jury to show that the witness has
contradicted himself.
z
z The pretrial period is also a time for lawyers to file motions about how
the case will proceed. These motions may involve discovery disputes,
objections to the jurisdiction of the court, objections about evidence
or interpretations of the law, and even objections to the judge who will
preside over the case.
z
z It’s common for a criminal defendant to get to go home for the period
before his trial. He can’t do this, however, unless he first pays bail or
a posts a bond-a financial sum set by the judge to ensure that the
defendant will appear at subsequent trial proceedings. The amount is
chosen based on considerations like the type of crime at issue and the
financial resources of the defendant.
28
Litigation and Legal Practice
JURY CONSIDERATIONS
z
z The right to a trial by jury is guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment of
the Constitution. Although it’s often described as an individual right,
it’s also a right of the people: it makes the citizenry, and not their rulers
or the police, the deciders of who did what to whom. Parties can waive
the right to a jury trial, and often do, but the right remains important.
z
z The process of jury selection involves lawyers from both sides asking
potential jurors questions to ascertain whether they would be appropriate
jurors for the case at hand. The questions generally are designed to tease
out whether a potential juror has a bias, a connection to the parties or
the lawyers, or previous knowledge of the case
that would render him unfit to serve.
z
z Potential jurors may be excused from
service if the service would cause
undue hardship-for example,
if the person has a medical
issues, or is the sole caretaker of
a disabled family member.
z
z After questioning the potential
jurors, the attorneys can eliminate
people from the pool. They might do
this by challenging for cause, which allows
the attorneys to eliminate potential jurors who are legally unsuitable
to serve. Lawyers also get a limited number of peremptory challenges,
which allow them to strike a certain number of jurors for any reason.
Peremptory challenges cannot be used in a discriminatory way, however.
z
z The instructions that the jury is given about the law are tremendously
important to the outcome of the trial. The lawyers work with the judge to
determine what the jury should and should not be instructed to consider.
This can be determined before the trial begins, if the trial will be a short
one. In a longer trial, these issues are often hashed out later, in a hearing
outside of the presence of the jury.
29
Lecture 4- Trial Strategy behind the Scenes
PUBLICITY AND SOCIAL MEDIA
z
z In highly publicized cases, public opinion, media coverage, and social
media commentary can all influence the course of the trial. Finding
a jury can be particularly tricky in these circumstances. So many people
have heard of the events, and formed opinions about the participants,
that it can be difficult to find people who are impartial.
z
z Highly publicized trials often have a cultural significance that extends
beyond the outcome of the case. This larger cultural significance is as
much a product of the traditional and social media that surround the
trials as it is of the trials themselves. To adequately represent a client
in today’s media-saturated landscape, an attorney cannot ignore the
media’s influence.
Suggested Reading
<
< Mauet, Pretrial.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Why do some trials capture the public imagination? Were
those disputes resolved in trial, or have they continued to
live on?
Þ
Þ How might an attorney consider media coverage or social
media when designing the strategy of her case?
30
Lecture 5
OPENING STATEMENTS:
THE MOMENT
OF PRIMACY
T
he opening statement by an attorney in a trial is a crucial
opportunity. It represents the attorney’s first chance to connect
with the jurors and create a lasting impression in their minds of
what the case is really about. Preparing an effective opening statement
takes careful thought, however, and there are strict limits on what
the attorney can say.
THE BASICS
z
z An attorney’s opening statement should be constructed
around her theory of the case-that is, what the case is really
about, and why her client should prevail.
z
z The opening statement is a bit like a table of contents: It orients
the jurors to the nature of the dispute, who the witnesses are
that they’re going to see, and what each side is trying to prove.
The lawyers then fill in the actual story of the case during the
trial, using witness testimony and other pieces of evidence.
z
z Imagine what a trial would be like if there were no opening
statements. A lawyer could begin by calling a witness, who might
be able to testify about a fact or two, but the jury would have no
idea why the testimony was significant or how it fit into the big
picture of the case.
31
z
z If the only purpose of an opening statement were orientation, a simple
sequence of events and a list of witnesses would be enough. But that’s
not enough. An opening statement must also grab jurors’ attention.
z
z The first few lines of an opening statement come at an important
moment psychologically: the moment of primacy. The moment
of primacy is the one time you can be sure that the jury is listening
attentively, so you should start with the things that you want them to
remember most.
ESTABLISHING ETHOS
z
z Jurors are usually a little nervous at
the outset of a trial, wondering what
is going to happen, and feeling the
weight of their roles in the process.
They’re looking for guidance. They’re
trying to find out whom they can
believe-who the “good guys” are. As
a lawyer, you want to be one of those
good guys. Your first impression must
be a good one.
z
z The opening statement is an exercise
in persuasion, and the character of the
speaker counts. Aristotle, the father of
classical rhetoric, referred to this concept
as ethos-persuasion based on the character
of the speaker.
z
z Tone is central to establishing ethos. In the heat
of battle, a trial lawyers may be tempted to adopt
an aggressive, sarcastic tone. This is a mistake,
particularly during the opening statement, when the
jurors don’t yet know the lawyer. A tone of conviction
and credibility is more likely to gain trust than an
overheated one.
32
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z At the same time, you don’t want to go too far in the other directionyou don’t want to be a bully, but you also don’t want to seem like
a pushover. If you are apologetic, or excessively polite, or if you mumble,
hesitate, fumble with visual aids, and use passive body language,
the jury will believe you lack confidence in your case and yourself.
A wise lawyer will practice his opening statement, including how he
will interact with any visual aids he might use, so that he can project
self-assurance.
z
z Another key to establishing ethos is not to exaggerate. It’s too easy
to disprove an inflated claim, especially one that’s offered in an
overheated way. You can be sure that opposing counsel will point out
the discrepancy. If the jury realizes that you were misleading them
about evidence, your credibility will suffer, and so will your client’s.
z
z It is a good practice to identify any facts that are bad for your case. If you
know that opposing counsel is aware of them and is likely to mention
them, you can lessen their impact by mentioning them first. You should
spend most of your time in your opening statement emphasizing the
good facts that help you. If you do, mentioning a bad fact as part of
the story rather than leaving it out altogether will actually help you
stay credible.
PERSUADING WITH PATHOS
z
z To be persuasive, you must figure out how to get the jury emotionally
invested in your client and your case. This is Aristotle’s second element
of persuasion, a concept he referred to as pathos-engaging the
emotions of your audience effectively.
z
z As a lawyer, you need to figure out how to explain your client’s view
of events through a believable and compelling story that jurors can
identify with. In other words, it’s not enough just to present your theory
of the case-you need to get the jurors to relate to your client’s point
of view.
33
Lecture 5- Opening Statements: The Moment of Primacy
z
z Let’s say, for example, that you represent a company that is suing
another one for violating a contract that the two companies previously
signed. Many lawyers might present their theory of the case by saying
something like, “This is a case about a breach of contract.” That’s an
accurate statement, and it is pithy, so it’s a good first step. But there are
no human beings in that version, and you can’t tell who did what to
whom. It also contains jargon. Some people don’t know what “breach of
contract” means, nor do they care.
z
z It’s better to look for some people to put into the story. You might instead
say something like, “This is a case about Laurie Kind, who owns a small
craft store in town, and about the fire insurance company that broke its
promise to her and let her down when she needed it most.” Now
your theory of the case has some heart to it, the jurors
know who did what to whom, and you even
have a theme-broken promisesthat you can use to drive
your theory home.
34
Litigation and Legal Practice
BUILDING WITH LOGOS
z
z The impressions that one makes in the first moments of an opening
statement are vital, and connecting with the jury emotionally is
essential. But of course, an effective opening statement and an effective
case depend, at the most basic level, on logic. If a case makes no sense,
a jury is unlikely to buy it. Aristotle referred to this concept as logospersuasion based on sound logic.
z
z Logos is especially important in an opening statement, because, strange
as it may seem, you aren’t allowed to argue in an opening statement.
You can offer the jury a preview of the facts you expect to bring out
in the course of the trial, and of the witnesses who will testify, but you
aren’t permitted to tell the jury what you think the facts mean, or to
suggest any conclusion or inference from them.
z
z It is difficult, but not impossible, to make a persuasive opening
statement without arguing. The best lawyers do it by lining up the facts
so that their meaning is obvious. The jury can then see the theory of
the case for themselves. This takes practice, however. Even experienced
lawyers struggle with it.
z
z Good logos requires structure. If the structure is clear-if you’ve
thought about what you really want to convey-it’s more likely that the
audience will absorb what you hope to communicate. In an opening
statement, the structure is largely driven by the theory of the case. That
might mean that the parties in the case start with completely different
parts of the story.
z
z Let’s say, for example, that you are a prosecuting attorney in a criminal
case. Your story might start with events leading up to the crime that
show the defendant’s motive. Or it might start with the crime itself, to
grab the jury’s attention. If you are the defense lawyer, your theory of
the case may be that the police lab made a mistake in processing the
evidence. In that instance, you might start with a description of the
police lab and what happens there.
35
Lecture 5- Opening Statements: The Moment of Primacy
z
z Good logos also demands that you pay attention to what you want to
include in your opening statement and what you want to leave out. One
thing you should leave out is any evidence that the jury doesn’t really
need to consider yet. Likewise, you should omit anything that you can’t
actually introduce into evidence. The opening statement is supposed to
be an overview of the facts that you’re going to prove. If you know you
won’t be able to bring something into evidence-perhaps because you
don’t have a witness, or because of a pretrial ruling by the judge-you
can’t talk about it.
z
z Another tricky logos issue in opening statements is the danger of
opening up evidence for the other side. If you’ve carefully filed a pretrial
motion in which you successfully persuaded the judge to prohibit some
type of evidence, you could undo all that good work if you end up
mentioning that evidence yourself. That will give opposing counsel the
right to present it in order to rebut your claim.
Suggested Reading
<
< Mauet, Trial Techniques and Trials.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ How is an opening statement similar to any persuasive
speech, and how does it differ?
Þ
Þ Aristotle wrote that persuasion requires credibility,
emotional engagement, and logic (ethos, pathos, and
logos, respectively). Do you agree? Which element do you
think is the most important?
36
Lecture 6
DIRECT EXAMINATION:
QUESTIONING YOUR
WITNESSES
A
fter opening statements, the prosecution and the defense (or the
plaintiff and the defense, in a civil trial) take turns presenting
evidence to the jury. One way to present evidence is through direct
examination, which involves calling witnesses to the stand to testify about
the facts of the case. After each witness testifies, opposing counsel is given
the opportunity to question-or cross-examine-the witness, typically to
poke holes in the witness’s testimony.
TELLING YOUR STORY
z
z Imagine yourself as a lawyer conducting direct examinations. Your first
challenge is to figure out whom you want to put on the witness stand.
That means starting with your theory of the case. What do you have to
prove? What version of facts must the jury believe in order for your side
to prevail, and who can best testify to those facts?
z
z To address these questions, it can help to create a chart showing your
theory of the case, your proof to support that theory, and how each
witness will shore up or reinforce that theory. This exercise will help
you see what big-picture point you need to make with each witness. It’s
a good idea to make a list of the testimony you absolutely must elicit
from each witness, and bring that list with you to the lectern during
questioning so you don’t forget anything.
37
Lecture 6- Direct Examination: Questioning Your Witnesses
z
z Keep in mind that you don’t have to call every single person who has
a connection to the case. A lawyer may spend a significant amount
of time before trial taking depositions-questioning witnesses under
oath, with the exchange transcribed by a court reporter. Depositions
are an opportunity to learn what a witness knows and what really
happened. They also show you how the witness will appear to the jury.
As common sense would suggest, you want to choose witnesses who are
reliable and credible, and avoid people who are disreputable.
z
z Once you’ve decided which witnesses you are going to call to prove
your case, you need to figure out the order in which to put them on the
stand. The order in which witnesses are called is an important part of
presenting a credible story to the jury. For example, you might begin
with a witness who can provide a broad context for the jury, follow with
witnesses who can fill in details in an order that makes sense, and end
with a particularly strong witness.
z
z You’re not allowed to tell the jury why you called a witness-that could
bias the jurors toward or against what the witness says. But the reasons
for the witness’s testimony will come out if you ask the witness the right
questions. If you start and end with particularly strong witnesses, that
can help make your case memorable and convincing.
38
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Once you’ve determined the order in which your witnesses will
appear, you need to think about what to ask them. Usually you start
the examination with questions that tell the jury why the witness is
testifying-his relation to the case, why he’s credible. Then you move
straight to questions about the main points you need the witness
to make.
z
z You want each witness to make a few, well-chosen points rather than
hundreds of them, because it’s easier for the jury to follow if you are
selective about what you ask. It can be helpful to think of these points as
separate chapters. You need to use clear transition sentences to signal to
the jury when you are shifting from one chapter to the next.
z
z By organizing your questions into a logical sequence, you can help each
witness tell her story and make it memorable. In addition to helping the
jury make sense of the testimony, this kind of structure will help the
witness feel more comfortable on the stand.
39
Lecture 6- Direct Examination: Questioning Your Witnesses
z
z An effective direct examination must do more than simply plod through
the evidence, however. It should relate a vivid story for the jury, one that
they’re going to care about and believe in. That’s why it’s important that
the witness do most of the talking. If the lawyer is having to prompt the
witness too much about what happened, the examination will be dull
and tedious, and the jury might tune out. Or even worse, the jury might
not believe the witness is telling the truth.
MAKING IT COUNT
z
z During direct examination, your witness is the star. The lawyer plays
a supporting role-gently feeding the witness short, nonleading
questions that will help her tell her story.
z
z A nonleading question is one that’s open-ended-one that lets the
witness answer in her own words. In contrast, a leading question is one
that suggests its own answer, such as, “You went to work, didn’t you?”
In direct examination you are not permitted to ask leading questions.
Until they become experts in direct examination, most lawyers write
their questions in advance to make sure they aren’t leading.
z
z A direct examination should sound like a conversation that the jury
gets to hear. The lawyer is essentially the voice of the jury, asking the
questions that the jurors would want to know answers to. So the lawyer
needs to ask questions in an order that makes sense. That doesn’t mean
you need to stick to the questions you’ve prepared no matter what,
though. If a witness says something interesting, follow up on it. Don’t
just move on to the next question on your list.
z
z Be careful not to let the witness stray from the case that you’re trying
to make. Sometimes witnesses attach significance to things that are
simply beside the point. If the witness begins to discuss things that have
nothing to do with the case, the wise lawyer will circumvent the topic
through careful questioning.
40
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Some witnesses are nervous and blurt out their stories so quickly that
the jury can’t absorb them. You can help slow down the pace by asking
the witness about events in increments, or by circling back to ask
follow-up questions. By doing so, you will ensure that jury can focus
on the details, and you will be able to emphasize the things you want
to emphasize.
z
z If you have a witness whose testimony you need but who doesn’t want
to be there in the first place, or who is sympathetic to the other side,
the judge will usually allow you to ask leading questions on direct
examination. You can also ask leading questions if the witness is a child,
or has mental disabilities, or is someone for whom language is an issue.
PREPARING YOUR WITNESSES
z
z It’s important to be able to think on your feet during direct examination,
but a successful direct examination isn’t just about what happens in
court. You have to prepare the witness. You have to think strategically
about what you’ll be asking, and you have to give the witness a chance
to practice so he or she will feel comfortable and be credible.
z
z Witnesses aren’t required to meet with you in advance of the trial if they
don’t want to. A cooperative witness probably will want to, but other
witnesses may not. In such cases, the best you can do is to subpoena
them and then give a lot of thought to what you will ask them at trial.
z
z To prepare a witness for trial, you should first review all the relevant
reports, interrogatories, witness statements, and interview notes, and
decide what testimony you want from the witness. You should write
out your questions and the anticipated answers, but don’t give those
answers to the witness. You aren’t allowed to coach the witness-it
would be unethical to tell the witness what to say, and it would also
make the witness less credible.
z
z Instead, practice with the witness. Ask her your questions, listen to her
answers, and adjust what you are asking based on what she says. Make
sure you’re eliciting clear information. If you’re going to use an exhibit
41
Lecture 6- Direct Examination: Questioning Your Witnesses
or a visual aid with the witness, show it to her and get her comfortable
with it. Work with the witness to help her appear open, positive, clear,
and respectful to the court and to opposing counsel. Pay attention to
her physical appearance, eye contact, and language to help her be more
credible. And emphasize the importance of telling the truth.
z
z When working with a witness, you must remember that conversations
with witnesses who aren’t your clients aren’t privileged. This means
that your conversations with non-client witnesses are fair game on
cross-examination. You have to be thoughtful about what you say and
don’t say.
z
z Sometimes a witness will become so terrified on the stand that she
cannot remember something she used to know. As a lawyer, you want
to reassure your witness in advance that it’s okay if that happens. In
that situation, the rules of court permit you to refresh the witness’s
recollection. You can use anything that might jog the witness’s
memory-a transcript of a deposition that she gave about the events in
question, for example, or notes she made about the case.
42
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z The preparation session should also include preparing your witness
to be cross-examined. Witnesses who are nervous about crossexamination will be less effective during your direct examination. So
let witnesses know about the habits of opposing counsel, and remind
them that whatever happens, they shouldn’t argue or get angry.
z
z The unexpected can always happen when a witness takes the stand. But
if you’ve lined up credible witnesses who can present your theory of
the case clearly, prepared them well, and know exactly what you want
to ask them, you have put your client and yourself in the best possible
position as you head to trial.
Suggested Reading
<
< Shadel, Finding Your Voice in Law School.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do you see an application for direct examination
techniques in your own life? If so, how might they
be helpful?
Þ
Þ How can you use questions to get a witness to tell a story?
Consider practicing this by asking direct-examination
questions to a friend.
43
Lecture 7
THE ART OF THE
OBJECTION
T
he task of voicing objections at trial is one of a trial lawyer’s most
important responsibilities. Making objections correctly requires
knowledge of both procedural and evidentiary rules. This lecture
explores the rules of evidence, focusing especially on the kinds of evidentiary
objections you’re most likely to hear during a trial.
THE BASICS
z
z The Federal Rules of Evidence govern the introduction of evidence-a
category that includes both witness testimony and exhibits-in all
federal courts. State courts have their own evidentiary rules, but
many states have adopted rules that are similar to the Federal Rules
of Evidence.
z
z Lawyers objecting to evidence offered by opposing counsel can do so
before or during the trial. You can’t wait until after the trial to make
an objection, however. The whole point is that you’re trying to keep the
jury from hearing about the evidence at all. If you wait until the trial is
over, the damage has already been done.
z
z Having your objection overruled by a judge can be as valuable as
having it sustained. Under Rule 103 of the Federal Rules of Evidence,
a party who makes a timely objection has preserved his right to raise
the evidentiary issue on appeal. If the judge overrules your objection,
you don’t have to keep objecting each time the evidence in question
44
Litigation and Legal Practice
comes up during the trial. As long as you objected properly the first
time, your client’s right to appeal the judge’s ruling on that issue has
been preserved.
z
z If you know that opposing counsel wants to introduce particular
testimony and you think there’s a good reason it shouldn’t be allowed,
it can be a smart move to file a motion to preclude the testimony before
the trial even starts. This gives the judge more time to think about the
correct outcome, and it gives you more time to think about and make
your best argument.
z
z You must always keep your eyes on the evidence introduced during the
trial, and be ready to object if necessary. Making objections quickly
and properly is a difficult skill to master, because-like so many other
courtroom skills-it requires thinking on your feet. It’s also important
to understand any pretrial rulings the judge has made so that you know
when opposing counsel is trying to bring in evidence that would run
afoul of those rulings.
45
Lecture 7- The Art of the Objection
RELEVANCE
z
z Relevance is one of the most common grounds for objection to
a particular piece of evidence. In order to be admissible in court,
evidence must be relevant to the dispute at hand. Rule 401 of the
Federal Rules of Evidence says that evidence is relevant if “it has any
tendency to make a fact more or less probable than it would be without
the evidence and the fact is of consequence in determining the action.”
z
z Evidence can be relevant but still inadmissible if the evidence violates
some other exclusionary rule. Under Rule 403, for example, the court
may exclude relevant evidence “if its probative value is substantially
outweighed” by a danger that it will prejudice, confuse, or mislead the
jury, or waste time.
z
z A common situation in which this analysis arises is the proposed
introduction of evidence about the character of a criminal defendant.
Prosecutors may want to introduce evidence that the defendant has
done bad things in the past, to show that it’s likely that he’s behaved
badly again this time. When offered for that purpose alone, such
evidence is inadmissible under Rule 404(b).
z
z Evidence of a defendant’s prior bad acts might still be admitted,
however, if it is offered for other purposes. Rule 404(b) allows evidence
of prior bad acts to prove, for example, that a defendant had a motive
or a plan, or to show that the defendant had special knowledge that is
relevant to the case at hand.
z
z A lawyer can also introduce evidence of prior bad acts when they
relate to the truthfulness of a witness testifying on the stand. Rule 608
provides that “a witness’s credibility may be attacked or supported by
testimony about the witness’s reputation for having a character for
truthfulness or untruthfulness.” This rule is limited, however. You
can question the witness about the bad act, but unless it’s a criminal
conviction, you can’t bring in outside evidence.
46
Litigation and Legal Practice
HEARSAY
z
z Hearsay refers to a statement made out of court that is being offered
into evidence so that the jury will believe the statement is true. The
general rule is that hearsay is inadmissible. However, there are many
exemptions and exceptions to the general rule.
z
z The idea behind the rule against hearsay is that it’s better to have
a witness come to court to talk to the jury directly, rather than to have
someone else say what an absent person said. An in-court witness is
testifying under oath, subject to the penalty of perjury, and is therefore
considered more likely to tell the truth. In addition, the jury can size
up the witness and determine if he seems credible, the lawyer who
called the witness can ask questions to flesh out his testimony, and
opposing counsel can examine the witness to see if he knows what he’s
talking about.
z
z Certain categories of evidence are exempt from the rule, and are
therefore not considered hearsay. For example, Rule 801 provides that
statements made by an opposing party aren’t hearsay. The logic behind
this exemption is that the opposing party will have ample opportunity
during the trial to correct any misstatements, and that the jury will
have plenty of context to evaluate the evidence.
z
z Rule 801 also says that a statement isn’t hearsay if it’s offered to
prove something other than the truth of the statement. For example,
testimony by Mark that he heard John say, “The Eagles won the game!”
is not hearsay if it’s not being introduced to show that the Eagles did,
in fact, win the game, but is instead being introduced for some other
purpose (perhaps to show that John mistakenly believed that the Eagles
had won when, in fact, they hadn’t).
z
z Another important exemption applies to reports that a witness said
something under oath in the past, but has now changed his story and
is saying something different on the stand. You can introduce his prior
inconsistent statement because the jury should know that he’s told two
different stories; that makes him less credible.
47
Lecture 7- The Art of the Objection
z
z Rule 803 lists a number of exceptions to the rule against hearsay. For
example, Rule 803 provides that hearsay is admissible if the statement at
issue was made to a doctor for purposes of receiving medical treatment.
The reasoning behind this exception is that people have a strong
incentive to tell the truth in such situations, and their statements are
therefore more likely to be credible.
z
z Another exception to the rule against hearsay applies to present
sense impressions. “Gosh, it’s hot in here!” is an example of a present
sense impression. Because such statements are usually made without
thinking, they are more likely to be credible. The same reasoning
underlies the exception for excited utterances, like “Watch out for that
truck!” There are also exceptions pertaining to public records, marriage
certificates, and property documents.
48
Litigation and Legal Practice
EXHIBITS
z
z Documents or other pieces of physical evidence can often help prove
your case. The judge must admit these items into evidence before
the jury can look at them. They are labeled as exhibits and typically
assigned a letter or number to make it clear in the record which item
you are talking about.
z
z Exhibits can help drive home a witness’s testimony by making a point
more vividly than testimony alone can. If you’re a trial lawyer, it’s
important for you to understand how to get something admitted into
evidence-not only because you may need to introduce exhibits as you
present your case, but also so you know when to object if someone else
is introducing evidence incorrectly.
z
z To enter a document into evidence, you must authenticate it-that
is, you must establish that the document is what you are claiming
it is. Generally, the witness authenticating the exhibit should be
someone with knowledge of it. In the case of a report, for example, the
authenticating witness might be the author of a report.
z
z If opposing counsel is attempting to enter a document into evidence,
you may object if the proper foundation hasn’t been laid-for example,
if opposing counsel hasn’t asked the appropriate questions to show that
the document is what he claims it to be. In some instances, it might not
be worth it to object, particularly if the problem is one that can be easily
corrected. But that’s not always the case. When introducing a report,
for example, attempted authentication by someone who didn’t write the
report (and can’t otherwise establish its authenticity) might very well
garner an objection.
z
z Usually it’s okay for a lawyer to offer a copy of a document into evidence.
However, if there is a question about whether the document has been
forged or altered, the court can require that the original document
be produced. This is called the best evidence rule, and is contained in
Rules 1001-1004.
49
Lecture 7- The Art of the Objection
z
z When preparing for trial, a smart lawyer will review her witnesses and
exhibits, and consider any objections that might be raised by opposing
counsel. Similarly, she will think about the testimony and exhibits that
opposing counsel might introduce, and determine if there are reasons
she might object.
z
z The smart lawyer will also pick her battles. That way, the judge will
pay attention to the objections she raises. Judges and jurors won’t like
objections if they think you’re simply trying to slow things down.
Suggested Reading
<
< Federal Rules of Evidence 401, 403, 404, 608,
801, 802.
<
< Sacks and Spellman, The Psychological
Foundations of Evidence Law.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ What do you think of the prohibition against hearsay
evidence? Do you think it is a reasonable rule, or do you
see a problem with it?
Þ
Þ We require attorneys to make objections at trial to
preserve errors on appeal. If an error has not been
preserved, it cannot be appealed. Do you think this is
a good system? Why or why not?
50
Lecture 8
PROBLEMATIC EVIDENCE
W
hy are innocent people sometimes convicted of crimes they
didn’t commit? Why is the party at fault in a civil suit not always
held liable? In some cases, it’s because of problematic evidence.
Lawyers must understand the issues associated with problematic evidence
so they can take measures to have it excluded. This lecture examines three
kinds of problematic evidence: false confessions, mistaken eyewitness
identification, and flawed expert testimony.
51
Lecture 8- Problematic Evidence
FALSE CONFESSIONS
z
z If a jury hears that a defendant has confessed to the crime of which he’s
been accused, jurors may be entirely convinced that the defendant is
guilty. After all, why would anyone confess to something he didn’t do?
That’s one of the questions Brandon Garrett set out to answer in his
groundbreaking work Convicting the Innocent.
z
z DNA testing first became possible in the late 1980s. In 1992, attorneys
Peter Neufeld and Barry Scheck founded the Innocence Project, which
began using DNA testing to exonerate wrongly convicted people. So
far, 349 people have been exonerated, including 20 people who were on
death row. In many of those cases, DNA evidence also identified the
real culprit.
z
z Garrett studied the first 250 cases in which a convicted defendant
was later exonerated by DNA evidence. In the first 40 such cases, the
exonerated defendant actually confessed to the crime of which he was
later proven innocent. False confessions are particularly problematic
in death penalty cases-so much so, in fact, that half of the 20 death
penalty cases in which the convicted defendant was later exonerated by
DNA evidence involved a false confession.
z
z In 38 of the 40 cases Garrett studied that involved false confessions,
detectives claimed that the defendant provided details about the
crime that only the perpetrator could know. But those details may
well have come from the detectives themselves, either deliberately or
inadvertently. They may have been mentioned during interrogation, for
example, by detectives pressing the defendant to confess to the crime.
z
z In 14 of the 40 cases Garret studied that involved false confessions, the
confessing defendant was mentally retarded. Three more defendants
were mentally ill, and an additional 13 were juveniles. That’s 30 out
of 40 cases where false confessions came from particularly vulnerable
defendants-defendants who might have confessed simply because
police told them to, for example, or because they didn’t understand the
gravity of the situation.
52
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z False confessions can also have tragic consequences for people other
than those who make them. a false confession might implicate another
innocent person, for example, who might then be inclined to provide
a false confession of his own to receive leniency in sentencing.
z
z To avoid obtaining false confessions, police departments in many states
are adopting reforms suggested in Convicting the Innocent, including
videotaping all police interrogations and educating judges about the
research on false confessions.
EYEWITNESS IDENTIFICATION
z
z Imagine a rape case in which the victim is able to positively identify the
defendant in court. She is able to point to him and say with certainty
that he is the person who committed the crime. She got a good look at
his face; in fact, his face was quite close to hers throughout the attack.
She is therefore 100 percent positive that the defendant is the man who
attacked her-except that he isn’t.
z
z In 190 of the first 250 cases in which a convicted defendant was later
exonerated by DNA evidence, eyewitnesses identified the wrong person
as the culprit. Sometimes this happens because the police have done
something to suggest to the victim who the culprit should be-during
a lineup of potential suspects, for example, or while the victim is
examining a photo array prepared by police.
z
z Sometimes the problem is what police fail to say. For example, social
science suggests that police who are showing a victim a lineup need
to say in advance, “Now, it’s possible that the person who did it isn’t
included in this group; we may not have found the right guy yet.” If they
don’t, research shows that the victim is likely to pick someone from the
lineup, even if that person didn’t actually commit the crime.
z
z In other situations, the problem is that the witness’s memory is
malleable. During a rape, for example, the victim is likely to be terrified,
and under stress it can be hard to remember things accurately. But if
the victim sees a certain suspect’s picture in a photo array prepared by
53
Lecture 8- Problematic Evidence
investigators, then sees it over and over again in the newspaper and on
television, the suspect’s image may become stuck in her mind. This can
lead the victim to identify the suspect as her attacker, even when the
suspect is innocent.
z
z False eyewitness identification can happen despite the best intentions
of those involved. Police are usually just trying to catch the bad guy.
Witnesses are usually just trying to help. Nevertheless, lawyers need to
know the problems with eyewitness identification in order to properly
defend their clients. Police need to know them, too, to make sure they
aren’t tainting the process.
z
z Improving police procedures is essential to reducing false
identifications. For example, studies suggest that using a police sketch
artist to help a victim make an identification is problematic, because
the process of creating the sketch can distort the victim’s memory.
z
z Another problematic procedure is the showup, where the police show
the victim a single suspect-rather than a lineup of several possible
suspects-in order to quickly identify the perpetrator. a showup is
permissible shortly after a crime occurs, when a possible suspect is
found near the scene, because it can help police protect the public.
Photo arrays and lineups are less suggestive than showups and therefore
preferable when performed correctly.
54
Litigation and Legal Practice
EXPERT TESTIMONY
z
z When a trial involves expert testimony, the expert is often the star
witness. Expert witnesses are especially influential in court because
unlike regular witnesses, they can offer opinions in their areas of
expertise. In order to do so, however, a witness must first be qualified
as an expert.
z
z The Federal Rules of Evidence provide that a witness may be qualified
as an expert based on the witness’s “specialized knowledge” concerning
the matter at hand. This could be scientific or technical knowledge, but
it doesn’t have to be. In a case involving a defective lawn mower, for
example, the owner of a landscaping company with years of experience
operating the type of mower used by the plaintiff might be qualified as
an expert and therefore permitted to offer an opinion.
55
Lecture 8- Problematic Evidence
z
z Most state courts have adopted the same standard for expert testimony
as the Federal Rules of Evidence. But there are some states, including
California, Illinois, and New York, that follow an older rule known as
the Frye standard. The Frye standard requires that experts use methods
generally accepted in their field. Under the Frye standard, the owner
of the landscaping company in the previous example might not be
qualified as an expert witness, because it might be difficult to show that
his method of evaluating lawn mowers is generally accepted.
z
z In federal courts, the methods used by expert witnesses don’t need to be
generally accepted. Instead, they must be shown to be reliable. In a 1993
case called Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the U.S.
Supreme Court clarified this idea by holding that the judge overseeing
a case is responsible for making sure that expert testimony is reliable.
If the judge isn’t persuaded that an expert is using a reliable method,
the expert won’t be qualified, and the jury won’t be allowed to hear
his opinion.
z
z When evaluating the reliability of a particular expert’s method,
federal judges generally apply the nonexclusive checklist established
by the Supreme Court in the Daubert case. This includes things like
whether the expert’s technique can be tested for reliability, whether it’s
been subject to peer review or publication, what the error rate of the
technique is, whether there were standards or controls applied, and
how the scientific or peer community views the technique.
z
z When you’re putting an expert on the stand, you usually begin with
questions establishing the expert’s credentials: the degrees they
hold, their experience, and so forth. In some state courts, you must
then formally offer the witness as an expert. You would then ask the
expert whether he has an opinion about the issue he’s there to discuss,
ask him what his opinion is, and then ask him to explain the basis
for his opinion.
56
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z When your expert is discussing his area of expertise, his testimony may
be very complicated. You’ll want to be sure that he explains himself
as clearly as possible, using plain language and visual aids if possible.
You’ll also want to be sure that he doesn’t bore, overwhelm, confuse, or
patronize the jury.
z
z At the request of Congress, the National Academy of Science issued
a report about the reliability of forensic methods used in court cases.
The report concluded, “In a number of forensic science disciplines,
forensic science professionals have yet to establish either the validity of
their approach or the accuracy of their conclusions.” The one notable
exception was DNA evidence, which has proved to be both valid and
consistently accurate. Other types of seemingly scientific evidence,
such as comparison of bite marks, footprints, fingerprints, voices, and
hair, have not.
Suggested Reading
<
< Garrett, Convicting the Innocent.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ What safeguards might we enact that could prevent
innocent people from confessing to crimes they didn’t
commit?
Þ
Þ What reforms could be enacted to ensure that expert
testimony is reliable?
57
Lecture 9
CONTROLLING
CROSS-EXAMINATION
T
here’s nothing quite like the conflict, test of wills, strategy, and quick
thinking involved in cross-examination. In a cross-examination,
opposing counsel asks questions to poke holes in the testimony of
a witness unfriendly to her client’s case. It’s a tricky exercise, requiring the
cross-examining attorney to prove her point without losing control of the
witness, eliciting an answer she doesn’t expect, or offending the jury.
SCOPE AND FORM
z
z Rule 611 of the Federal Rules of Evidence lays out two areas of
questioning that are permitted on cross-examination in federal courts.
It states, “Cross-examination should not go beyond the subject matter of
the direct examination and matters affecting the witness’s credibility.”
Some states have rules permitting broader cross-examination, but most
states have rules similar to Rule 611.
z
z On cross-examination, you can ask the witness questions on any topic
the witness discussed on direct examination. However, you’re not
supposed to exceed that scope. You can also cross-examine the witness
concerning matters affecting the witness’s credibility. For example, if
the witness was once convicted of perjury-that is, lying under oathquestions about the perjury conviction would certainly be relevant to
the witness’s credibility and would therefore be allowed.
58
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Rule 611 also provides that a court “may allow inquiry into additional
matters as if on direct examination.” The court might allow this if
the issues you want to raise have some bearing on the case, but you
will have to question the witness as if you were performing a direct
examination-for example, without asking leading questions.
z
z With few exceptions, leading questions are only permitted on crossexamination, where they are a powerful tool for keeping a witness in
control. Leading questions are those that suggest their own answer
(“You opened the door, didn’t you?”). A skillful cross-examining
attorney can control the witness by asking a series of simple, singlefact, leading questions. This approach leaves little wriggle room for the
witness to argue.
COMMON PITFALLS
z
z When cross-examining a witness, it’s important not to ask one question
too many. This is sometimes called avoiding the ultimate question-the
question that really drives home the point that you want to get across to
the jury. It can be very tempting, especially if you’ve spent a lot of time
building toward a particular conclusion, but it’s a mistake; the witness
will never agree with you, and she may say something that makes it
harder to prove your case.
z
z It’s much better to limit your cross-examination strictly to questions
with which the witness must agree. Save any conclusions you want the
jury to draw for your closing argument, when the witness you crossexamined won’t be on the stand to disagree with you.
z
z Avoiding the ultimate question is actually an example of a broader,
more fundamental rule of cross-examination: Never ask a question
unless you already know the answer. The witnesses you cross-examine
are usually in court to support the other side’s case, and you can’t afford
to gamble on what they might say. So ask safe questions-ones based on
something the witness has said in the past.
59
Lecture 9- Controlling Cross-Examination
z
z On cross-examination, you should limit yourself to a few, well-chosen
points. As with direct examination, the jury is more likely to remember
what a witness says if there are only a few points and the points are
very clear.
z
z It’s not a great idea to use cross-examination to make a point that
you could make through direct examination of a friendly witness, or
through your closing argument. Cross-examination should be used
strategically-to show why a witness can’t be believed, for example, or
to elicit helpful testimony that only this particular witness can provide.
z
z Your cross-examination should be structured in a way that helps tell
your story-that promotes your theory of the case. If you spend all
your time shooting down the witness’s direct examination, the jury
probably won’t remember your points, and you’ll have reemphasized
the opposing counsel’s structure instead of supporting your own.
60
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z The tone that a lawyer uses during cross-examination is extremely
important. If a witness is hostile, or provides an unexpected answer,
some cross-examining attorneys instinctively adopt a more aggressive
tone, and may stand too close to the witness. This can backfire,
however, if the jury perceives the attorney as a bully.
z
z When performing a cross-examination, you should generally stay
behind the lectern and maintain a tone of calm confidence. A tone
that shows even-tempered professionalism and expertise will appeal to
a jury more than one that suggests you enjoy humiliating someone. You
may occasionally need to get tough with a witness, but be sure to pick
your battles carefully.
IMPEACHMENT AND OBJECTIONS
z
z Impeachment is the process of calling into question the credibility of
a witness. If you’re questioning an important eyewitness to an incident,
you might do this by showing that the eyewitness was hiding behind
a wall when the events occurred and couldn’t actually see anything.
If the witness has bias, interest, or motive to lie-for example, if he’s
a friend of the party calling him to testify or is an expert being paid for
his time in court-those are also proper grounds for impeachment.
z
z You can impeach a witness by showing that he has been convicted
of a felony, or of any crime involving dishonesty or false statements,
if the conviction happened in the last 10 years. You can also impeach
a witness by asking him about prior bad acts that are probative of his
truthfulness, but you won’t be able to use extrinsic evidence of the
prior bad act.
z
z The most complex form of impeachment-but often the most damaging
for the witness’s credibility-uses a prior inconsistent statement by that
witness, typically from a police report or a deposition. Because the
witness was talking to the police or was under oath when making the
prior statement, it’s a major blow to his credibility if he contradicts the
statement during his testimony at trial.
61
Lecture 9- Controlling Cross-Examination
z
z If you can successfully impeach a witness using a prior inconsistent
statement, you will have shown that either the witness is lying now,
the witness was lying previously when it was unlawful to do so, or the
witness has forgotten a critical part of his testimony. In any case, the
jury will be much less likely to believe what that witness has to say.
z
z You should only attempt to impeach a witness by prior inconsistent
statement if you are certain that he has contradicted something he said
previously. You must also have the affidavit or deposition to prove that
he has changed his story.
62
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Before reading the prior statement for the jury, you must have nailed the
witness down to his contradictory statement. If the witness realizes that
he is playing fast and loose with his prior testimony, he often will back
down and contradict himself in court, in which case an impeachment
with the prior statement will be unnecessary. If the witness maintains
his position, however, you can proceed with the impeachment.
z
z When conducting the impeachment, read the relevant portion of the
witness’s prior statement to the witness rather than having the witness
read it to you, because if given the opportunity, some witnesses will
hijack the examination and muddle your impeachment. A wise lawyer
will know the impeachment procedure cold so that she can skillfully
make clear that the witness has contradicted himself.
z
z If the witness admits that his story has changed, then there’s nothing
else that you need to do. Sometimes, however, the witness might
not admit the contradiction, or might claim not to remember.
63
Lecture 9- Controlling Cross-Examination
If the issue you’re talking about isn’t significant, you might be required
to let it drop. But if the matter has important independent significance
to the case, then you can prove up the impeachment with extrinsic
evidence when it’s time for you to call your own witnesses.
z
z A lawyer can do a lot of damage to opposing counsel’s case through
cross-examination. But if it’s your witness who is being crossexamined, you can defend him by objecting, when appropriate, to
the cross-examining attorney’s line of questioning. For example, you
might object if a question your witness is asked on cross-examination
exceeds the scope of the direct examination, misstates evidence,
assumes facts not in evidence, or asks the witness to speculate, or if the
question is argumentative, which means that it doesn’t actually elicit
any new information.
Suggested Reading
<
< Younger, The Irving Younger Collection.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ One of the lessons of an effective cross-examination is
that you must stay in control of your tone. You can ask
aggressive questions, but if your tone is also aggressive,
that can backfire. Can you think of ways that this lesson
could be useful in your own life?
64
Lecture 10
CLOSING ARGUMENTS:
DRIVING YOUR
THEORY HOME
A
fter both sides in a trial have had the opportunity to make their
cases, it’s time for closing arguments. Closing arguments allow
each side’s lawyers to connect all the dots for the jury. This lecture
examines how the elements of persuasion can be used to craft an effective
closing argument. It also explains why critical missteps in a closing
argument can undermine both an attorney’s credibility and his client’s case.
WHAT TO DO
z
z In a closing argument, a lawyer should make full use of Aristotle’s three
elements of persuasion-ethos, pathos, and logos. First, it’s important
for a for a lawyer to remain credible. This is Aristotle’s concept of
ethos-the idea that a speaker persuades partly through his own
good character.
z
z Even though the lawyer is not a party to the dispute, the relationship
between the lawyer and the jury is important. The case of a lawyer’s
client will be stronger if the jury trusts and believes the lawyer, and if it
feels a human connection with him.
z
z It’s also important to use the closing argument to connect the jury
to your client. This is Aristotle’s concept of pathos-if the jury feels
sympathy for your client, they’re more likely to be persuaded by your
arguments on his behalf.
65
Lecture 10- Closing Arguments: Driving Your Theory Home
z
z To get a jury on your client’s side, you’ll want to be thoughtful about
what you call your client. Sometimes you’ll hear lawyers talk about “the
plaintiff” or “the defendant,” or even “my client,” all of which can keep
you from thinking of this person as a person.
66
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z A good technique in a closing argument is to remind the jury of their
important role and tell them the action they should take. Another smart
move is to organize the evidence to make it easy for the jury to digest
and remember.
z
z Sometimes in a closing argument, lawyers will attack one another. This
is a mistake. It’s called an ad hominem attack, and it’s a logical fallacy;
you can’t defeat the logic of an argument by attacking the person who
made it. What’s more, juries won’t like it.
z
z The two primary tasks in a closing argument are to flesh out your
own theory of the case, and to respond to the other side’s strongest
points. This is where logos-sound logic-plays a key role. It’s time to
make explicit the conclusions that you hinted at during your opening
statement and to answer the ultimate questions you refrained from
asking on cross-examination.
z
z A great way to drive home your theory of the case is to make it
unforgettable by using a visual aid. This could be a demonstrative
aid-a chart, for example, or a series of slides-or perhaps an exhibit
that’s been entered into evidence at trial.
z
z In a closing argument, you want to remind the jury of what they learned
from the various witnesses, highlighting testimony that’s particularly
helpful to you. In doing so, try to explain complicated ideas as simply
as possible. Sometimes using an analogy or a metaphor can help make
a complex idea more accessible.
z
z In addition to explaining your theory of the case, you also need to use
your closing argument to respond to the other side’s strongest points.
You shouldn’t avoid the parts of the trial that may damage your side.
Confront them head on.
z
z One very effective approach is to argue that even if everything the other
side says is true, your client should still win, and give reasons why. Rather
than jeopardizing your credibility with the jury by misrepresenting
what the other side is arguing, address the arguments honestly.
67
Lecture 10- Closing Arguments: Driving Your Theory Home
WHAT NOT TO DO
z
z We’ve discussed what you should do in a closing argument. Now let’s
talk about what not to do. First, you can’t misstate the facts. You can
argue about what facts mean, and draw reasonable inferences from
evidence. But if a witness said one thing, you can’t pretend that he said
the exact opposite thing. The jury won’t buy it, and the rules governing
attorney conduct prohibit it.
z
z You can’t comment on missing evidence if the evidence was excluded by
a pretrial ruling, or if a party didn’t have the burden of producing the
evidence. In general, you can’t talk in your closing argument about any
evidence that wasn’t actually admitted at trial, whether it was excluded
by a pretrial ruling or not.
z
z It’s not acceptable for a lawyer to state a personal opinion. A good
rule of thumb for a lawyer is to cut out all references to himself and
his thoughts altogether. For example, it wouldn’t be appropriate for
a lawyer to say things like, “I believe this witness and you should, too,”
or “I promise you that my client is a good man,” or “This is the worst
miscarriage of justice I’ve ever seen.” The lawyer is not a witness in the
trial and should not be testifying.
68
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z While you do want to connect with the jury on an emotional level,
you can’t ask the jury to base its verdict on anything other than the
evidence and the law. An argument that appeals to prejudice or fear
would be improper.
z
z In a civil trial, the jury is typically responsible not only for rendering
a verdict, but for awarding damages if they are appropriate. The golden
rule for lawyers arguing about damages is not to ask the jury to imagine
what it would be like to be the victim and to award damages accordingly.
z
z If a civil case doesn’t involve punitive damages, it would be
improper to argue that the jury should return a verdict that would
punish the defendant. The idea is that the law defines the proper
amount for damages, and that’s what the jury should be using to
determine what damages to award. The award shouldn’t be based on
the jury’s gut feelings.
z
z It is impermissible to encourage the jury not to follow the law, or to
think about the consequences of a particular verdict when determining
whether or not to render that verdict. A lawyer also may not misstate
the law. It’s okay to refer to what that law is so that the jury understands
what they’re supposed to do, but it must be correct.
69
Lecture 10- Closing Arguments: Driving Your Theory Home
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT
z
z Jury instructions are given by the judge toward the end of a trial. They
typically come after the lawyer’s closing arguments, though some
jurisdictions flip this and have the jury instructions come before
closings. Jury instructions tell the jury what the law says and what they
need to determine.
z
z In many jurisdictions, a lot of the language in jury instructions is
drawn from pattern jury instructions. These are published by the court
system of a particular jurisdiction, and contain approved language for
explaining the different pieces of the law. The lawyers in a case submit
their requests for particular instructions to the judge, and the judge
rules on which instructions to include.
z
z When the jury deliberates, it is given a verdict form that it uses to report
the verdict. That form tracks the judge’s instructions. Sometimes,
a lawyer will use this form as a visual aid in closing argument, showing
the jury which box the lawyer hopes the jury will check.
Suggested Reading
<
< Sayler and Shadel. Tongue-Tied America.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ What role do you think emotion should play in a closing
argument? How far should a lawyer go to bring emotion
into a closing argument?
70
Lecture 11
UNDERSTANDING THE
APPELLATE PROCESS
T
he right to appeal is the right to question the outcome of the
trial process. It’s a check on the power of lower courts, and an
acknowledgment, based on centuries of experience, that even the
smartest minds and the best-run institutions sometimes make mistakes.
This lecture examines the appeals process, with particular focus on the
standards of review applied by appellate courts and the nuts and bolts of
appellate advocacy.
71
Lecture 11- Understanding the Appellate Process
THE APPEALS PROCESS
z
z Most jurisdictions have two levels of appellate courts: courts of appeal,
which review decisions made by trial courts, and an even higher level
judicial tribunal-typically known as a supreme court-which reviews
decisions made by the courts of appeal. Decisions of these higher courts,
whether in the federal or state court systems, are generally issued in
written opinions and have binding authority for the courts below them
in the same jurisdiction.
z
z Many trials don’t generate appeals. Maybe the parties settle, thereby
resolving the dispute, which happens a lot in civil cases. Maybe
a defendant in a criminal case is found to be not guilty. Maybe there’s
no legal right to an appeal. You can’t appeal simply because you don’t
like the verdict; you have to be able to point to a particular legal error.
72
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Even rarer is the case that makes it all the way to a supreme courtwhether a state supreme court or the Supreme Court of the United
States. While most jurisdictions give you the right to appeal certain
errors to an intermediate appellate court, particularly in criminal cases,
most jurisdictions do not guarantee such access to the supreme court.
z
z Most supreme courts don’t have the time to hear every appeal that’s
brought to them. The workload would be overwhelming. Instead, they
choose their cases, looking for those that have special significance or
might clear up a particularly important area of law.
z
z Appeals typically take place after a trial is over, but they can be
made during the trial. If an appeal is made mid-trial, it’s called
an interlocutory appeal. For example, a prosecutor might file an
interlocutory appeal if the trial judge has suppressed evidence that the
government feels should lawfully be admitted.
z
z The law typically frowns on interlocutory appeals. It’s more efficient to
save all issues on appeal for the close of the case, so they can be heard
all at once. But if there’s an issue that just can’t wait-for example, if
a party says the court doesn’t have jurisdiction even to hear the suit in
the first place-then the party may have to file an interlocutory appeal
concerning that issue.
z
z To bring an interlocutory appeal, you have to show that waiting to
appeal the issue until the trial is over would be particularly prejudicial
to the rights of one of the parties. In some jurisdictions, an interlocutory
appeal will stay the lower court proceeding, halting the trial until the
appellate court decides the matter. In other jurisdictions, the lower
court proceeding isn’t stayed, which could make things complicated.
z
z An appeal is not a retrial of a case. Trial courts and appellate courts
play very different roles in the judicial process. Everything gets decided
at the trial level. The jury gets to resolve all issues of fact-unless the
trial isn’t a jury trial, in which case the judge becomes the finder of
73
Lecture 11- Understanding the Appellate Process
fact. In either case, the judge is responsible for ruling on all issues of
law that are raised during the trial. Together, judge and jury see the
whole picture.
z
z The appellate court, by contrast, doesn’t get to start from the beginning
to decide if every little thing at issue was decided correctly. Appellate
courts don’t usually get to evaluate new evidence or hear from
witnesses. Instead, the appellate court is only allowed to look at the
particular legal issue raised on appeal. Usually, this will be an issue
of whether the trial procedure was correct, or whether the trial judge
interpreted the law correctly.
STANDARDS OF REVIEW
z
z Another difference between a trial court and an appellate court is the
standard by which the decision is made. In civil cases, the trial court
typically will determine liability based on the preponderance of the
evidence. That is, findings of fact will be based on whether the evidence
shows that it is more likely than not that events were as the plaintiff
claims. In a criminal case, the trial court will use the more demanding
standard requiring proof beyond a reasonable doubt. An appellate
court, however, applies different standards of review, based on the type
of ruling the court is being asked to reconsider.
z
z An appellate court will only overturn a finding of fact if it is clearly
erroneous. This means that the appellate court will defer to the factual
determinations of the trial court, unless the appellate court has
a definite and firm conviction that there’s been a mistake.
z
z Evidentiary hearings usually involve evaluating the credibility of
witnesses and other evidence. The trial court judge or jury are in
a better position to make that evaluation, because they see the witness
testimony and other evidence firsthand. The appellate court usually
must rely on the party’s legal briefs and a transcript of what happened,
and that’s not the same thing as actually being present at the trial.
74
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z If the issue on appeal is a question of whether the trial judge interpreted
the law correctly, then the appellate court has more discretion. Legal
issues are reviewed de novo. This means that the appellate court is
free to substitute its own judgment for that of the trial court. Mixed
questions of law and fact typically are also reviewed de novo.
z
z Sometimes an appeal involves matters that are left to the discretion of
the trial judge-for example, the sentencing of a criminal defendant
who is found guilty at trial. Appellate courts use a highly deferential
standard in such instances, overturning the lower court only if the trial
judge’s ruling constituted an abuse of discretion.
APPELLATE BRIEFS
z
z The lawyer appealing a case will have to file an appellate brief.
Depending on the circumstances, he may also have the opportunity to
make an oral argument before the appellate court.
z
z In general, appellate courts make their decisions based primarily on
written briefs filed by the parties. A brief will start with a statement of
the facts of the case, a statement of the question the appellate court is
being asked to decide, a summary of the case’s procedural history, and
a discussion of the applicable standard of review. The brief will then go
on to lay out the party’s arguments.
z
z Writing an effective brief is an art that every appellate lawyer has to
master. An effective brief will be well written, and its arguments will be
based on sound logic. Logical reasoning is absolutely critical.
z
z Basic legal argumentation usually follows the form of an Aristotelian
syllogism: a major premise and a minor premise point the way to
a conclusion (if A and B are true, then C must be true). In a legal brief,
the major premise is the rule of law governing the case, the minor
premise is the facts particular to the case, and the conclusion is the
application of the law to the facts.
75
Lecture 11- Understanding the Appellate Process
z
z If your major premise is rooted in text, such as a statute, then you will
need to interpret that statute for the court. The court will always want
to start with the language of the statute itself, so that should be your
starting point. Next, you may want to consider the legislative purposethe reasons given by legislators for enacting the law in the first place.
z
z You may also want to look at the statute’s legislative history. For
example, when Congress passes a statute, it creates reports that can be
used to help interpret the language if the meaning is not totally plain,
or to help explain the purpose of the statute. State legislatures have their
own records that reveal legislative history. Sometimes the history shows
that the legislative body considered a different version of the statute and
rejected it. You can use that to argue that there are things the statute
isn’t meant to do.
76
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z A lawyer interpreting a text should always read the entire text, because
the court will want to understand the relevant portion of the text in
context. The court will try to interpret the statute so that it is internally
consistent. A court will also do everything it can to read a statute so
that it is constitutional, because undoing the work of the legislature,
a body elected by the people, is not something courts undertake lightly.
z
z Lawyers seeking to bolster their arguments about the proper
interpretation of a text often make policy arguments, predicting the
likely consequences of the text. Naturally, an interpretation of a statute
that promises good public policy outcomes can be very persuasive.
Lawyers arguing against a particular interpretation quite often invoke
a “parade of horribles,” describing all the terrible things that might
result from the interpretation they oppose.
ORAL ARGUMENT
z
z Sometimes, an appellate court will decide a case based solely on the
briefs written by the parties. In many cases, however, the court will also
permit oral argument, giving the lawyers for each side an opportunity
to make oral presentations about their case and answer questions from
the appellate judges.
z
z Writing a brief and participating in oral argument involve very
different skills, and an appellate lawyer needs to be able to do both well.
In a brief, you can cover all the issues related to your appeal, including
those issues that are less important, and you can include lots of
footnotes to back up your points. In oral argument, however, you must
be selective. You want to pick the one or two main issues that are really
important to your case, and focus on those.
z
z Typically, an appellate court will have a panel of judges who hear the
case. Each lawyer will have a limited amount of time to present, and
the lawyer isn’t the only one doing the talking. The lawyer might start
the oral argument off with what she wants to say, but the judges will
quickly jump in with questions.
77
Lecture 11- Understanding the Appellate Process
z
z Good lawyers welcome questions from the appellate panel. If oral
argument were simply a time for the lawyer to provide a short oral
summary of what’s in the brief, it wouldn’t really add much. The judges’
questions let you know what they really care about. The challenge of
oral argument is to present your case confidently and professionally,
while at the same time being careful not to sound too aggressive, even
in the face of rough questioning.
Suggested Reading
<
< Davis, The Argument of an Appeal.
<
< Harlan, What Part Does the Oral Argument Play
in the Conduct of an Appeal?
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do you believe that a person who committed a crime
should be able to be released on appeal because of
a procedural error? Why is this our system?
Þ
Þ Do you think an appellate court should be able to review
everything de novo, without deferring to the trial court’s
judgement? Why or why not?
78
Lecture 12
ARGUING BEFORE THE
SUPREME COURT
E
verything about the United States Supreme Court suggests an
institution of great authority: the soaring Corinthian columns of its
façade, the lofty height of the courtroom’s ceiling, the elevated dais at
which the justices sit in their robes. The nature of that authority, however,
has changed over the years. In this lecture, you will examine the history of
the Supreme Court, the role the Court plays in our government, and the
importance of effective advocacy.
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
z
z The Supreme Court was established by the U.S.
Constitution. However, the details concerning the
judicial branch-how the federal courts would be
organized, for example-were left to Congress
to decide. The modern Supreme Court and its
relationship with the lower courts have thus
been shaped by various acts of Congress and
decisions by the court itself over the years.
z
z Figuring out how the courts were going to work
was a high priority for the founding fathers.
After America won the Revolutionary War, the
very first bill introduced into the United States
Senate became the Judiciary Act of 1789, the
law establishing our first court system.
79
Lecture 12- Arguing before the Supreme Court
80
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z The Judiciary Act split the country into three judicial regions, called
circuits-the Eastern, the Middle, and the Southern. Each circuit
contained judicial districts, but each district contained only trial
courts; no intermediate courts of appeals existed. In this beginning, the
six justices of the Supreme Court were required to hold court not only
in the nation's capital, but also in federal circuits across the country.
z
z The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is addressed in the Constitution,
which says that federal judicial power extends to cases arising under
the Constitution, federal laws, treaties, admiralty and maritime law,
cases in which the United States is a party, controversies between states
or between citizens of different states, and cases involving foreign
countries or foreign subjects. Those are the only kinds of cases the
Supreme Court and lower federal courts can hear. All other matters
belong in state court.
z
z In the 1803 case Marbury v. Madison, the
Supreme Court ruled that Congress can’t pass
a statute giving the court more power than the
Constitution permits the court to have. The
Constitution trumps. So Marbury v. Madison
stands for the proposition that the Constitution
is the top of the heap, the paramount law.
z
z Marbury v. Madison also stands for the proposition
that it’s the Supreme Court’s job to say what the
Constitution means, and to invalidate an act of
Congress if it violates the Constitution. Chief
Justice John Marshall wrote, “It is emphatically
the province and duty of the judicial department
to say what the law is.”
z
z By 1869, the number of Supreme Court justices had grown from six to
nine, one for each of the judicial circuits in existence as of 1866. That’s
also how many justices there are on the Supreme Court today.
81
Lecture 12- Arguing before the Supreme Court
z
z For most of its history, the Supreme Court was peopled
by white, Protestant men. Its composition has
changed over time, with changes in American
society’s attitudes and composition. The
first Catholic on the court was Roger Taney,
who was appointed in 1835. Louis Brandeis
was the first Jewish man, appointed in 1916.
The first African-American man on the court
was Thurgood Marshall, appointed in 1967.
But no women served on the court until 1981, when
Sandra Day O’Connor was appointed by President Reagan.
z
z There have been efforts over the years by the other branches of
government to influence the Supreme Court through the appointment
process. Probably the most famous of these was President Franklin
D. Roosevelt’s court-packing scheme. During the Great Depression,
Roosevelt was at first given a great deal of power to enact legislation
to help suffering people. In 1933, during the first 100 days of his
presidency, he signed 15 major pieces of legislation, ushering in the
New Deal era. But by 1936, the Supreme Court had invalidated some of
Roosevelt’s plans, holding that some of what he wanted to do exceeded
his power.
82
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Roosevelt responded by proposing judicial reforms. He said that the
Supreme Court had an overwhelming caseload, and suggested that he
be allowed to add up to five additional Supreme Court justices. The
idea was that he would pick five people sympathetic to his reforms, who
would back him up. Roosevelt couldn’t get public support for the plan,
however, and his court-packing scheme failed.
z
z Ideally, the president who nominates you should not affect how you
function as a Supreme Court justice. As the highest authority within
a branch of government independent from the executive and legislative
branches, the Court has an interest in maintaining its own legitimacy.
If Supreme Court justices were mere puppets of the presidents who
appointed them, then confidence in the Supreme Court as an institution
would erode.
83
Lecture 12- Arguing before the Supreme Court
PROCEDURAL MATTERS
z
z The Supreme Court gets to decide which cases it wants to hear. This
wasn’t always the way it worked, however. During the 19th century, the
Supreme Court had to hear all cases within its jurisdiction. Congress
changed the law when it became clear that the workload was too great.
z
z Nowadays, parties file petitions for writs of certiorari, attempting
to demonstrate to the Court that their cases are of sufficient general
interest to warrant the Court’s review. Other interested parties
also sometimes weigh in on a petition by filing what are known as
amicus briefs.
z
z A minimum of four justices must agree that a case merits the Court’s
time. In almost all cases, the Supreme Court denies the petition for
certiorari and lets the lower court’s decision stand without endorsing
it-either because the case doesn’t raise a significant enough issue, or
because the court simply doesn’t have the time.
z
z If the Court accepts the case, it will hear an oral argument about the
matter. If the United States is a party to the case, one of those lawyers
arguing will be from the office of the Solicitor General-the federal
government’s lawyer in the Supreme Court. Approximately two-thirds
of the cases the Supreme Court hears involve the Solicitor General.
People who work in the Solicitor General’s office sometimes go on to
serve on the Supreme Court itself.
z
z In a typical case, after receiving briefs and hearing oral argument, the
justices of the Supreme Court will have a private conference to vote
on how the case should be decided. The most senior justice in the
majority decides who writes the majority opinion. If there is going to
be a dissenting opinion, the most senior justice among the dissenters
decides who will write it.
84
Litigation and Legal Practice
z
z Sometimes a justice might agree with the conclusion of the majority, or
with the conclusion of a group of dissenting justices, but might disagree
with their reasoning, or want to emphasize some aspect of the case that
the other justices have not. In that situation, the justice might write his
own concurring or dissenting opinion.
z
z Once the justices have written their drafts, they circulate them to the
other justices. This process is especially noteworthy, because it can
actually change minds. As the drafts go through different iterations,
justices may change their votes, and a dissent could become the
majority opinion.
IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS
z
z The cases heard by the Supreme Court are a great example of the power
that litigation offers the private citizen. We clearly have the power to
shape the law based on the representatives that we elect. But we also
have the power to influence the law by having our day in court. And
while financial resources can make a difference, that power is available
to corporations and individuals alike.
85
Lecture 12- Arguing before the Supreme Court
z
z Our system is not fragile. It is robust, and litigation is one way that
we keep it strong. In our democracy, rather than having rules handed
down by a king, we, the people, make the rules. And we are constantly
refining and improving them. The legislature passes laws; the executive
branch approves and enforces them; the judiciary interprets them; and
we, the people, test them-and sometimes even challenge and change
them-through the courts.
z
z Obviously, the law isn’t perfectly responsive to changes in our society.
It is a system built on caution, on checking to make sure that things
have come out properly. But over time, our system has achieved
some amazing things: protections for civil rights, free speech, equal
protection, due process, the right of each citizen to vote-innovations
of which we can be proud, and which keep our social fabric strong.
Suggested Reading
<
< McCloskey, The American Supreme Court.
<
< Scalia and Garner, Making Your Case.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Why is the Supreme Court so formal? Does the formality
of language and dress serve a purpose?
Þ
Þ Do you believe that Supreme Court justices should decide
cases according to their own political beliefs?
Criminal Law
and Procedure
Joseph L. Hoffmann, J.D.
88
Professor Biography
Joseph L. Hoffmann, J.D.
Harry Pratter
Professor of Law
Indiana University
Maurer School of Law
Joseph Hoffmann is the Harry Pratter
Professor of Law at the Indiana
University Maurer School of Law,
where he has taught since 1986. He
received a B.A. in Mathematics from Harvard College and a J.D. cum
laude from the University of Washington School of Law. After law school,
Professor Hoffmann clerked for the Honorable Phyllis A. Kravitch of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and for then-associate
justice William H. Rehnquist of the U.S. Supreme Court. He was a Fulbright
professor at the University of Tokyo in Japan and at Friedrich-Alexander
University of Erlangen and Friedrich Schiller University of Jena in Germany.
Professor Hoffmann is a nationally recognized scholar in the fields of
criminal law, criminal procedure, habeas corpus, and the death penalty.
He also writes about Japanese law as well as law and psychology. Professor
Hoffmann was a co-principal investigator for the Capital Jury Project,
the largest empirical project ever to study jury decision making in capital
cases. He served as co-reporter for the Massachusetts Governor’s Council
on Capital Punishment, testified before Congress on habeas corpus and
death penalty issues, and has been involved in successful death penalty
reform initiatives in Illinois and Indiana. Professor Hoffmann has been
a consultant for both prosecutors and defense attorneys in criminal and
death penalty cases before the U.S. Supreme Court and numerous federal
and state appellate courts.
89
Professor Biography
Professor Hoffmann is an award-winning teacher. At Indiana University,
he has been recognized with the Outstanding Junior Faculty Award;
the Leon H. Wallace Teaching Award; the Trustees’ Teaching Award; the
Teaching Excellence Recognition Award; and the Gavel Award, given by the
law school’s graduating class to the person who made the most significant
contribution to their legal education. In addition to his regular law school
courses, Professor Hoffmann teaches a popular course about law for honors
undergraduates at Indiana University. He has served for more than 30 years
on the faculty of The National Judicial College, teaching state, military,
and tribal judges about death penalty law. Professor Hoffmann also teaches
regularly at University Panthéon-Assas (Paris II) in France; Jagiellonian
University in Kraków, Poland; and the University of Tokyo in Japan.
Professor Hoffmann is the coauthor of two of the leading casebooks used
by law students across the United States: Defining Crimes (with the late
William Stuntz) and Comprehensive Criminal Procedure (with Ronald
Allen, Andrew Leipold, Debra Livingston, Tracey Meares, and William
Stuntz). He also cowrote Federal Criminal Law (with Peter Low) and Habeas
for the Twenty-First Century: Uses, Abuses, and the Future of the Great Writ
(with Nancy King). In 2007, Professor Hoffmann appeared in the PBS series
The Supreme Court. ■
Course Scope
90
Criminal Law and Procedure
C
riminal law and procedure involve the most basic of conflicts
between the awesome power of the government and the fundamental
rights of the individual. One of the most important responsibilities
of any government is to protect its citizens from those who would transgress
society’s rules and norms, and thereby do harm to others. Criminal law is
where we identify those rules and norms, and where we set the punishments
for those transgressions.
No two cases are exactly alike, however, so the established rules of criminal
law must always be tempered with the discretion to do justice in individual
cases. Similarly, the government’s power to investigate and prosecute crimes
is one that can easily be misused or abused. Criminal procedure must
therefore strike a delicate balance, allowing the police and prosecutors to
seek justice and protect the public, while simultaneously protecting the
right of the accused to a fundamentally fair process.
The first half of this course addresses some of the most important issues
in contemporary criminal law. In this part of the course, you’ll learn how
crimes are defined, and why criminal law has become both more rigid and
more punitive. You’ll see how judges have managed to retain the discretion
to spare defendants who don’t deserve to be punished as criminals.
You’ll study the different kinds of homicide crimes, including murder
and manslaughter, and learn all about the doctrine of self-defense. You’ll
examine the key differences between federal crimes and state crimes. You’ll
also take a close look at the Eighth Amendment, which regulates and limits
the punishments that can be imposed for crimes.
The second half of the course concerns the fundamentals of modern
criminal procedure-the rules that govern how criminal cases are handled
by the police, prosecutors, and the courts. In this part of the course, you’ll
learn about the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
how it became the basis for applying the Bill of Rights to state criminal
Course Scope
91
cases. You’ll study the Fourth Amendment’s ban on unreasonable searches
and seizures, and its role in preserving individual privacy-a role that’s
become increasingly important, and increasingly difficult, in the modern
age of technology. You’ll explore the Fifth Amendment’s privilege against
self-incrimination, discovering how it led to the famous Miranda warnings.
You’ll also learn about plea bargains and jury trials-two ways in which
many criminal cases ultimately get resolved.
The primary goal of this course is to teach you about the key issues that
shape modern criminal law and procedure. Along the way, you’ll encounter
some of the most famous cases in legal history. You’ll explore death, taxes,
and free will. You’ll learn about the Constitution and the Supreme Court. In
the end, however, the two questions that frame this course are deceptively
simple: How can criminal law best achieve justice? And how can criminal
procedure best ensure fairness? ■
92
Lecture 1
WHO DEFINES CRIMES,
AND HOW?
T
his lecture examines the development of criminal law in Americain particular, the codification of criminal law by state and federal
legislatures. It also considers the definitional roles of various
institutional actors outside the legislature, including prosecutors, police,
defense attorneys, judges, and juries.
93
93
Lecture 1- Who Defines Crimes, and How?
CRIMINAL CODES
z
z The term “common law” refers to law made by judges through
individual decisions rendered in individual cases. America inherited
its legal system from England, and many areas of Anglo-American
law-including criminal law, contract law, tort law, and property lawevolved over the centuries through the common law process.
z
z During the early 20th century, a reform initiative to codify criminal law
swept America. The basic idea was that people should be able to look
up the definition of a crime and learn exactly what kind of conduct
is prohibited. As a result of this codification movement, in modern
America all crimes are now defined by statutes. We no longer permit
judges to create new, common-law crimes.
z
z In the modern criminal justice system, consideration of cases inevitably
begins with the text of the relevant criminal statute. That statute will
contain a definition setting forth the specific elements of the crimethe elements that the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable
doubt at trial in order to secure a conviction.
z
z Almost all crimes in America-more than 90 percent of them-are
crimes prohibited by state law, not federal law. This is because our
federal government is one of limited powers; it can only exercise
those powers that have been granted to it by the Constitution. The
Constitution doesn’t give Congress the power to enact general
crime statutes.
z
z During the common law era, criminal law was mostly a private matter.
For most of English legal history, crimes were not prosecuted by
a public official called a prosecutor. In fact, until the late 1700s, there
was no such thing as a public prosecutor. That institution originated in
the American colonies.
Criminal Law and Procedure
94
z
z In precolonial England, crimes were prosecuted by the victim, or by
a member of the victim’s family. The victim would hire a private lawyer
and press criminal charges, similar to the way civil suits are filed today.
In the American colonies, however, legal authority to file criminal
charges gradually migrated from victims to a public prosecutor,
an official acting on behalf of society as a whole.
INSTITUTIONAL ROLES
z
z In modern America, crimes are defined by the complex interaction
of several different institutions. Chief among these is the legislature,
which enacts the statute that provides the formal definition and that
identifies the required elements of the crime.
z
z Next comes the prosecutor. Working closely with the police,
the prosecutor oversees the criminal investigation process. It is
the prosecutor who ultimately makes the decision whether, based
on the evidence, a particular individual will be charged with
a particular crime.
z
z Any person who’s been formally charged with a crime has
a constitutional right, under the Sixth Amendment, to be represented
by an attorney. If the defendant can afford to hire a lawyer, he will
usually do so. If he can’t, he’ll be represented by a lawyer appointed
by the government-either a private defense lawyer willing to take the
case, or, especially in larger cities, a public defender.
z
z Once the defendant has a lawyer, the prosecutor will begin to negotiate
with the defense lawyer concerning a possible plea bargain. That’s how
the vast majority of criminal cases-almost 95 percent-get resolved.
As a result, defense lawyers also play an indirect role in defining crimes.
z
z If the two sides can’t agree on a plea bargain, the case will go to trial.
In criminal cases where a defendant could be sentenced to more than
six months in prison, the defendant has a constitutional right to a jury
trial. Juries play a key role in defining crimes, because they possesses
95
95
Lecture 1- Who Defines Crimes, and How?
the absolute and legally unreviewable power to acquit, even in the face
of overwhelming evidence of guilt, if the jury believes that the behavior
of the police or prosecutor, or even the criminal law itself, is unjust.
z
z Last, but not least, there’s the judiciary. Every criminal trial occurs
under the supervision of a trial judge, who has the authority to
dismiss the charges if she concludes that the evidence of guilt is
legally insufficient to meet the prosecution’s burden of proof beyond
a reasonable doubt.
z
z Every guilty plea, including the terms of any plea bargain, must be
approved by the judge. In trial courts and appellate courts, judges serve
as the official interpreters of the law, including criminal statutes and
any defenses or constitutional challenges that might be raised.
Criminal Law and Procedure
96
SHIFTING INTERPRETATIONS
z
z The shift in the institutional balance of power can be observed in many
modern criminal law cases. One excellent example is the 1998 case
Brogan v. United States. James Brogan was a union official suspected
by the FBI of taking bribes to sell out the interests of the union. One
evening, federal agents knocked on Brogan’s door. When he answered,
the agents identified themselves and told Brogan they were seeking
his cooperation in a criminal investigation. The agents asked Brogan
if he had taken bribes. Brogan replied, “No.” The agents, already
in possession of documents proving that Brogan had taken bribes,
arrested him.
z
z Brogan was charged with bribery, but he was also charged with violating
a federal statute that prohibits making “false statements” to the federal
government. The statute, located in Section 1001 of Title 18 of the U.S.
Code, provides:
Whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any
department or agency of the United States, knowingly and
willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up... a material fact,
or makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or
representations... shall be fined not more than $10,000 or
imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
97
97
Lecture 1- Who Defines Crimes, and How?
z
z Brogan was convicted at trial, and he appealed all the way to the U.S.
Supreme Court. Brogan’s lawyer argued that the Court should create
a special exception to the Section 1001 for someone who, like Brogan,
utters a simple “No” in response to a question from a government
agent about whether he committed a crime. This proposed exceptiondescribed as the “exculpatory no” exception-had previously been
recognized by several lower federal courts.
z
z Brogan’s lawyer argued that the “exculpatory no” exception was
necessary to avoid putting people like Brogan in the position of being
pressured by the government into admitting their own guilt-which
would violate the spirit, if not the letter, of the Fifth Amendment
privilege against compelled self-incrimination. Brogan’s lawyer also
pointed out that Brogan didn’t actually mislead federal agents, because
the agents already knew that Brogan had taken bribes.
z
z The Supreme Court upheld Brogan’s conviction. According to the
majority opinion, written by Justice Antonin Scalia:
By its terms, Section 1001 covers “any”
false statement.... The word “no,” in
response to a question, assuredly makes
a “statement”.... In fact, petitioner
[Brogan] concedes that under a “literal
reading” of the statute he loses.
Petitioner asks us, however, to depart from
the literal text that Congress has enacted,
and to approve the doctrine... which excludes
from the scope of Section 1001 the “exculpatory no.”
Criminal Law and Procedure
98
[I]t is not, and cannot be, our practice to restrict the unqualified
language of a statute.... Courts may not create their own
limitations on legislation, no matter how alluring the policy
arguments for doing so.... Because the plain language of
Section 1001 admits of no exception for an “exculpatory no,” we
affirm the judgment.
z
z This is the essence of modern textualist interpretation of criminal
statutes. The U.S. Supreme Court-the highest court in the landfelt powerless to consider the argument that Congress wouldn’t
want Section 1001 to apply to someone who utters merely a simple,
“exculpatory no.” Instead, the Court found the plain language of the
statute completely conclusive.
z
z Textualism has had two primary effects on the criminal justice system.
First, the system has become more punitive, in terms of both the
breadth of the criminal law and the severity of criminal punishments.
Politically speaking, legislatures always have a strong incentive to enact
broader and tougher criminal statutes; no politician wants to be seen as
“soft on crime.” As a result, America’s prison population has exploded.
z
z Second, the power of prosecutors has been greatly increased. For
someone like Brogan, the best shot at leniency-perhaps the only shotis to cut a favorable plea bargain with the prosecutor. Prosecutors have
learned how to use effectively the leverage they gained as a result of the
shift in power from judges to legislatures. As a result, the rate at which
defendants agree to plea bargains continues to climb.
z
z Notwithstanding these trends in favor of legislatures and prosecutors,
judges do still retain power over one key aspect of criminal lawnamely, the requirement that all defendants must be proven to have
acted with “evil intent,” often referred to as mens rea.
z
z Most crime statutes don’t specify the mens rea requirement for any
particular crime. Legislatures tend to focus their attention instead on
defining the criminal act itself. As a result, judges have to fill in the
gaps-just like they did in the days of common law.
99
99
Lecture 1- Who Defines Crimes, and How?
z
z Judicial power to define and apply mens rea requirements-which
extends to matters relating to self-defense, intoxication, and insanitymeans that judges can still pursue the ends of justice in individual
criminal cases. Even in a textualist era, judges can still find ways to
reverse criminal convictions that seem unfair. And that’s a good thing,
because in the end, criminal law is all about justice-to the defendant,
to the victim, and to society.
Suggested Reading
<
< Regina v. Dudley & Stephens.
<
< Brogan v. United States.
<
< Fuller, “The Case of the Speluncean Explorers.”.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ What are the pros and cons of relying on judges,
legislatures, and prosecutors to define criminal law?
Þ
Þ Do you agree that the necessity defense should never
apply to the crime of murder-even in a case where it’s
clear that the killing actually saved lives?
100
Lecture 2
CRIME AND THE
GUILTY MIND
T
his lecture explores the contours of mens rea, a fundamental
component of criminal law. In this lecture, you will learn how
criminal intent is traditionally defined, what happens when
a criminal defendant claims to have been mistaken the facts or the law, and
when a defendant can be convicted even without proof of criminal intent.
GENERAL INTENT
z
z The concept of mens rea, the “guilty mind,”
was developed centuries ago as part of the
common law of crimes. By the 18th century,
Sir William Blackstone, the famous
English judge and legal commentator,
was able to declare with certainty that
no crime could be committed without
a “vicious will.” In 1922, the U.S. Supreme
Court explained that “the general rule
at common law was that the scienter was
a necessary element in the indictment and
proof of every crime.”
z
z Traditionally, most crimes are defined in a manner that requires only
what the criminal law calls general intent. General intent means that
you intended to do the act that’s defined as the crime. It wasn’t done by
accident, in other words; you meant to do it.
101
101
Lecture 2- Crime and the Guilty Mind
z
z Consider the crime of simple assault. This crime is typically defined as
an actual or threatened touching of another person’s body in a manner
that’s unwanted and either painful, harmful, or offensive. If you touch
another person in this way, and if it wasn’t an accident-if you meant
to touch them-then you satisfy the requirement of general intent.
It doesn’t matter whether you intended to cause the victim any pain,
harm, or offense. The law says that the act you committed speaks for
itself, and your general intent to commit that act makes you a criminal.
z
z Many other crimes are defined in terms of general intent. One such
crime is possession of illegal drugs. If illegal drugs somehow appeared
your pocket, and you never even knew they were there, then your
possession would be accidental, and you wouldn’t be guilty. But if you
meant to possess the drugs-if it wasn’t an accident-then you satisfy
the law’s requirement of general intent, and you would be guilty.
Criminal Law and Procedure
102
z
z General intent is the most common mens rea requirement for crimes.
In fact, the criminal law presumes that all crimes are general intent
crimes, unless there’s a strong reason to conclude otherwise. That
reason might be found in the text of the statute that defines the crime,
or in the legislative intent behind the statute. In some cases, it can arise
because a court decides that the statute-if construed as requiring only
general intent-would create too great a risk of unfairly punishing
innocent people.
z
z In modern America, we no longer allow our courts to create or define
common law crimes. All crimes must now be defined by statute,
which means legislatures are primarily the ones who define crimes.
But legislatures tend to focus their attention mostly on criminal acts.
Often, they don’t say anything at all in a crime statute-or say only
vague and indeterminate things-about the mens rea of the crime. As
a result, judges often have to fill in the gap and decide what the mens
rea should be.
z
z Whenever there’s a significant risk that treating the crime as a general
intent crime might end up unfairly punishing innocent behaviorbehavior that doesn’t speak for itself, in terms of establishing the
defendant’s criminality-the judge often has at least some discretion to
do justice. The judge can use the authority to define or interpret the
mens rea requirements of the crime, and can insist on proof of some
additional amount of evil, or moral culpability, before convicting the
defendant of the crime.
SPECIFIC INTENT
z
z Consider the crime of intentional homicide, or murder. To be guilty of
that particular crime, you have to intend not only the act that caused
the victim’s death-whatever that act may be-but also the result of
the act. Specifically, you have to intend to take a living person and, by
your act, turn them into a dead one. This is what the criminal law calls
specific intent.
103
103
Lecture 2- Crime and the Guilty Mind
z
z Specific intent is the criminal law’s other big category of mens rea. If
a crime is based on specific intent, it means the defendant must be
proven to have intended not only to commit the criminal act, but also
to cause the specific harmful result, or consequence, of the act. Because
general intent is the default rule, specific intent applies only when the
crime statute-or the legislative intent behind the statute-specifically
requires it.
z
z A classic example of a specific intent crime is theft. Traditionally,
theft is defined as taking the property of another with the intent to
permanently deprive them of the property. It’s not enough simply to
take another person’s property. You have to take it with the specific
intent to change someone else’s property into your property.
z
z Specific intent can be hard even for courts to understand. In the case
of Commonwealth v. Liebenow, for example, the defendant was accused
of theft for taking some steel pipes and metal plates from an active
construction site. The site was marked as private property, and there
were construction machines and work trailers parked all around. One
morning, Liebenow simply drove up in a pickup truck and started
taking stuff. When a worker asked what he was doing, Liebenow said he
was picking up some junk.
Criminal Law and Procedure
104
z
z When he was later arrested by the police, Liebenow at first claimed
not to know anything about the items in the back of his truck. Later,
however, he admitted that he had taken them from the construction
site. But Liebenow still denied any wrongdoing; he said he honestly
believed that the items had all been abandoned.
z
z The Massachusetts Court of Appeals initially held that Liebenow’s
belief didn’t matter one way or the other, and affirmed Liebenow’s theft
conviction. But the Massachusetts Supreme Court later reversed the
conviction, holding that if Liebenow honestly believed that the property
was abandoned, and that he was therefore free to take it, he couldn’t be
found guilty of theft.
105
105
Lecture 2- Crime and the Guilty Mind
z
z For a general intent crime, a mistake of fact is no defense, unless
the mistake is one that is both honest and reasonable. For specific
intent crimes like theft, however, an honest belief-even if patently
unreasonable-is a defense, if it negates the specific intent required
for the crime. In the Liebenow case, an honest belief about whether the
property was abandoned could have negated the specific intent required
for the crime of theft.
z
z In general, criminal law doesn’t care at all whether you know that
what you’re doing is defined as a crime. You can’t murder someone,
for example, and then complain to the judge that you didn’t know it’s
a crime to murder someone. Ignorance of the law would be no defense.
z
z There are some cases, however, where a mistake about the law would be
a valid defense. If you’re accused of theft, for example, and your defense
is that you honestly-but mistakenly-believed that the property in
question legally belonged to you, that might be a defense. In that case,
an honest mistake about the legal ownership of the property could very
well have prevented you from possessing the specific intent required for
a theft conviction.
z
z A similar point can be made about intoxication. Intoxication is never
a defense to a general intent crime. But for specific intent crimes,
if you were too drunk to form any specific intent about the harmful
consequences of your actions, then it’s at least possible that your
intoxication might give you a defense to the crime.
STRICT LIABILITY
z
z Strict liability typically refers to liability without any mens rea
requirement. It’s sometimes described as liability without fault. If you
commit the criminal act, then you’re guilty, regardless of your state
of mind.
z
z The leading federal cases on strict liability arose during the first half of
the 20th century, when the federal government started to become heavily
involved in regulating certain risky businesses, like the food and drug
Criminal Law and Procedure
106
industries, to protect public safety. The consumer protection statutes
enacted during this period contained regulations designed to ensure
that dangerous products wouldn’t be sold or distributed to innocent
consumers. To make sure the new rules would be obeyed, Congress
often added criminal sanctions for anyone who violated them.
z
z The Supreme Court upheld strict liability as a basis for criminal
conviction in these types of cases. As long as the legislature clearly states
that a regulatory crime is based on strict liability, then-according to
the Supreme Court-it’s okay to dispense with the usual requirement of
mens rea, because the goal is to place the duty on the business to avoid
the danger to the public.
Suggested Reading
<
< Morissette v. United States.
<
< State v. Varszegi.
<
< Commonwealth v. Liebenow.
<
< United States v. Dotterweich.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do you agree that theft should be defined as a specific
intent crime?
Þ
Þ In cases where mens rea becomes an issue, how can
the law determine what was really going through the
defendant’s mind at the time of the crime?
107
Lecture 3
HOMICIDE AND
MORAL CULPABILITY
T
his lecture examines the criminal law governing homicide crimes. In
this lecture, you will learn about the different types of homicide,
a category of crimes that includes first- and second-degree murder
and voluntary and involuntary manslaughter. You will also learn how firstdegree murder differs from other types of homicide.
Criminal Law and Procedure
108
ELEMENTS OF HOMICIDE
z
z Homicides are unique among crimes. There is no crime more foul, more
heinous, more devastating in its impacts upon the victim and society.
And there is no other crime that prompts in the rest of us such a strong
desire to delve deeply into the mind-and the soul-of the criminal.
z
z Homicides are also unique in the criminal law. Almost all crimes are
defined by reference to a particular criminal act, or an act committed
under a particular set of circumstances. Take money or property from
someone else, and you’ve committed theft. Take it by force, and you’ve
committed robbery. Punch another person-or, indeed, touch them
in any manner that’s unwanted and offensive-and you’ve committed
assault. None of these crimes require the defendant to cause any
particular result, or any particular amount of harm to the victim.
z
z Homicide crimes are defined differently. The essential conduct element
in the definition of all homicide crimes is exactly the same: causing
the death of another human being. You can commit a homicide by
shooting, by stabbing, by strangling, by running the victim over with
a car, by or pushing them off a cliff. Any act will do, as long it results in
the victim’s death.
z
z In many cases, homicide doesn’t even require an affirmative act. You
can commit homicide by failing to do something you’re legally required
to do-failing to feed your infant child, for example. Homicide simply
requires proof that the defendant’s act or omission-whatever it may
have been-caused the death of another human being.
z
z Homicide law is one of the few areas of criminal law where courts
debate the meaning of causation. What, exactly, does it mean to say
that a defendant’s act or omission caused the victim’s death? This may
seem like a simple question. In some murder cases, however, this issue
is anything but simple.
109
109
Lecture 3- Homicide and Moral Culpability
z
z Causation for legal purposes is not a simple, scientific fact. The simple,
scientific fact of causation does exist, of course; in the legal world, it is
sometimes referred to as but-for causation. This refers to the concept
that but for a certain event, a certain other event would not have
happened. That’s something we can treat as a scientific fact, something
that’s either true or false.
z
z The problem is that but-for causation is woefully insufficient to
establish legal causation. This is because there are an infinite number
of but-for causes of any particular event. Without consciously thinking
about it, however, we instinctively know how to limit the boundless
universe of but-for causes of an event to a much smaller set of causes
that we treat as relevant to issues of moral responsibility and blame.
Criminal Law and Procedure
110
z
z Whenever a tragic event occurs, we make an unconscious choice
about which specific cause or causes we want to blame for the loss.
It’s important recognize that this is a choice-there’s nothing true or
false about it. To put it another way, the causal judgments we make are
normative, not empirical. For moral purposes, we choose the cause that
we think should be blamed for the tragic outcome.
z
z This is the kind of instinctive thought process that psychologists call
heuristic thinking. We learn to do it from childhood. And it happens
unconsciously-most of the time, at least, until a hard case forces us to
bring our thought process out into the open.
z
z The law has a name for the cause that gets blamed for a particular
harmful result: proximate cause. Proximate cause is a legal term
without a scientific definition. The term simply refers to whatever cause
the law decides to treat as responsible for the particular harm at issue.
z
z There’s no magic formula to proximate causation. Our unconscious
minds pay attention to many factors, which combine to produce the
final judgment about causation. Some factors are obvious: As the term
itself suggests, we tend to attribute proximate causation to causes that
are more proximate-closer in time and space-to the result. We also
tend to focus on causes that are foreseeably connected to the result,
rather than those that almost nobody would have guessed might lead
to that result.
z
z There are two special factors that greatly affect causal judgments. One
factor is that, as human beings, we need to believe that we have free
will. We don’t want to think of ourselves as mere automatons reacting
to external stimuli, because this would deprive our lives of all moral
significance. The second factor is that we tend to base our causal
judgments on morality. Whenever a bad result happens, we tend to
blame whomever is seen as the worst actor in the situation.
111
111
Lecture 3- Homicide and Moral Culpability
CATEGORIES OF HOMICIDE
z
z Distinctions between various homicide crimes depend on what the
defendant was thinking at the time of the act or omission that caused
the victim’s death. It’s all about the defendant’s moral culpability for
the death, or what the criminal law calls mens rea. The law creates
a hierarchy of homicide crimes, in which the seriousness of each crime
depends on the defendant’s level of moral culpability.
z
z The least serious homicide crime is involuntary manslaughter. The
crime of involuntary manslaughter generally consists of causing
another person’s death with the culpable mens rea of recklessness, or
perhaps criminal negligence. The punishment varies from state to state,
generally ranging from 1 to 10 years in prison.
Criminal Law and Procedure
112
z
z The next homicide crime in the hierarchy is second-degree murder,
which can get you 20 years or more in prison. The legal definition of
second-degree murder is a killing committed with malice. In criminal
law, however, “malice” does not mean “anger” or “ill will.” Rather,
“malice” is a catch-all term that signifies a certain kind of evil.
z
z There are a number of different ways that a murder defendant can
exhibit the kind of evil that qualifies as malice. The paradigmatic case
is an intentional killing. If you walk up to somebody, and you suddenly
decide to shoot them in the head and kill them, that certainly qualifies
as malice.
z
z If you intend to cause grievous bodily injury to another person-even
if you don’t actually intend to kill them-and they die from the injury,
that also qualifies as malice. Grievous bodily injury is the kind of injury
that could easily turn out to be fatal, such as cutting off an arm or leg,
or shooting someone in the chest rather than the foot.
z
z If you commit a felony considered by the law to be inherently dangerous
to human life, and someone dies as a result of your crime, that qualifies
as malice, even if the death was unintended or accidental. This is called
the felony murder rule, and it is the subject of much debate. Proponents
of the rule say that someone who chooses to commit a dangerous crime
deserves to be treated as a murderer when an innocent victim dies.
Opponents argue that the rule unreasonably punishes individuals for
a death they had no intent to cause.
z
z If you do something so extremely reckless that the law considers it
a manifestation of an abandoned and malignant heart, and someone
dies as a result, that qualifies as malice. The “abandoned and malignant
heart” language comes from the traditional legal terminology, which
is why the crime is sometimes abbreviated as AMH murder. AMH
murder involves a level of recklessness that’s closer to depravity.
113
113
Lecture 3- Homicide and Moral Culpability
z
z The next homicide crime in the hierarchy is first-degree murder. Just
like the paradigmatic example of second-degree murder, first-degree
murder involves an intentional killing. The difference is that in firstdegree murder, the victim’s death must be premeditated.
z
z First-degree murder cases often involve a decision to kill made over
an extended period of time. Nevertheless, courts often say that
premeditation doesn’t require any specific amount of time. The cases
also often involve advance planning, but courts say that planning is
not required.
z
z The best way to think about the legal concept of premeditation is that
it expresses something about the quality of thought that went into
the decision to kill-not the quantity. First-degree murder involves
a rational, cold-blooded decision to kill, as opposed to the impulsive
kind of decision that’s the hallmark of second-degree murder. Rational
decision-making can occur in an instant. Of course, the more time
spent making the decision, the more likely it is that a court will find
premeditation. Similarly, advance planning isn’t required, but it can be
strong evidence of rational thought.
z
z The punishment for first-degree murder is severe. A conviction for
first-degree murder could mean life in prison, or even-if aggravating
circumstances are present and the relevant state law so provides-the
death penalty.
z
z The law also treats some felony murders as first-degree murders, if the
felony the defendant was committing is one that the legislature has
included on a statutory list. Most states list robbery, burglary, arson,
kidnapping, and rape. If you commit any of these felonies, and someone
dies as a result of your crime, you can be charged with first-degree
murder-even if you never intended for anyone to die.
Criminal Law and Procedure
114
VOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER
z
z Voluntary manslaughter is a homicide crime that is defined as a special
exception to the crime of second-degree murder. If the defendant
qualifies, his punishment is typically reduced to half of what it
would have been if he had been convicted of second-degree murder.
Voluntary manslaughter thus operates as a kind of partial defense to
a murder charge; you’re still guilty of a homicide crime, but a much less
serious one.
z
z The doctrine of voluntary manslaughter was developed by judges
hundreds of years ago. The basic idea was to mitigate the punishment
in certain homicide cases where the defendant’s act was motivated by
extreme anger, due to a provoking event that would make most people
at least feel homicidal-even if most people wouldn’t actually kill
over it.
115
115
Lecture 3- Homicide and Moral Culpability
z
z We often describe voluntary manslaughter as taking place in the
heat of passion. If the provocation would be adequate to push even
a reasonable person into the heat of passion, and if the killing occurs
before sufficient time has passed for a reasonable person to cool off,
then the crime becomes voluntary manslaughter instead of murder.
z
z Two classic situations led to the creation of the voluntary manslaughter
doctrine. The first was mutual combat: Two men get into a fight,
the fight escalates, and one of them ends up dead. This can’t be selfdefense, because both men were responsible for the initial violence. But
judges decided it shouldn’t be murder, either, because the victim was
just as responsible as the defendant for creating the situation that led to
his death.
z
z The second classic situation was spousal adultery: A man finds his wife
in bed with another man, and kills his wife, the other man, or both.
Once again, judges decided that this shouldn’t be murder, because the
killing was only partly the fault of the defendant; it was also the fault of
the adulterous lovers who created the situation. In both scenarios, the
crime was reduced to voluntary manslaughter, and the punishment was
reduced by roughly half.
z
z Notice how both of these classic situations reflect a testosteronedriven view of the world. The early common law judges who devised
the doctrine were all men. And the decision to mitigate the crime and
punishment in these cases reflected a male-centric perspective. It’s like
saying, “boys will be boys”-and sometimes boys will kill, if you get
them mad enough.
z
z It’s proven much harder over the years for female defendants to benefit
from the voluntary manslaughter doctrine. A battered wife who kills
her abusive husband out of fear for her life, but does so while the
husband is sleeping, can’t qualify for self-defense because she’s not in
imminent danger. She also may not qualify for voluntary manslaughter,
however, because very few women kill, even under circumstances of
extreme emotion.
Criminal Law and Procedure
116
Suggested Reading
<
< Robertson v. Commonwealth.
<
< Commonwealth v. Welansky.
<
< Mayes v. People.
<
< Austin v. United States.
<
< Percy, Hoffmann, and Sherman,
“Sticky Metaphors.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do you agree that a rational intentional killing should be
defined by the criminal law as a more heinous crime than
an impulsive intentional killing?
Þ
ÞShould the law provide a partial defense to people who
kill others out of extreme, provoked anger?
117
Lecture 4
THE LAW OF
SELF-DEFENSE
C
riminal law tries to strike a balance between the rights of those who
feel their lives may be threatened, and the rights of those who areor who may be mistakenly perceived as-a threat. A key component
of this difficult balancing act is the doctrine of
self-defense. Related issues include battered
spouse syndrome, the duty to retreat, and
police use of deadly force.
SELF-DEFENSE BASICS
z
z Self-defense has a long history
in Anglo-American law. As
the doctrine is traditionally
defined, a person is legally
allowed
to
use
forceincluding deadly force-when
he reasonably believes that
he, or another person, is in
imminent danger of death or
serious bodily injury from an
assailant. The person claiming
the right to self-defense must
not be the initial aggressor,
and the amount of force used
must not be excessive.
Criminal Law and Procedure
118
z
z The doctrine of self-defense is usually based on what a person
reasonably believes. This means that it’s possible to act legally in selfdefense even if you are mistaken about the threat, as long as your
mistake is reasonable. If you kill another person because you honestly
but unreasonably thought the person was trying to kill you, that’s still
criminal homicide, but your charge might be reduced from murder
to manslaughter.
z
z The doctrine of self-defense can be used in defense not only of yourself,
but also of others. The law has long taken the position that you’re never
allowed to take another person’s life on the ground of necessity. This
means that even if killing one person will save another person’s life-or
10 lives, or 100 lives-you can’t do it. But if one person is actually trying
to kill another person, you can kill the first person to save the second
person’s life.
z
z The traditional definition of self-defense requires that the perceived
threat be imminent. This meanss you can’t act in self-defense
prematurely, killing someone because you believe they’re likely to attack
you in the future. Nor can you act in self-defense belatedly, killing them
after the attack is over and you’re no longer in any immediate danger.
BATTERED SPOUSE SYNDROME
z
z Self-defense’s imminence requirement is sometimes a point of
controversy, particularly in cases where the person facing a lethal
threat may be unable to defend themselves in the heat of the moment.
In such cases, the victim may need to wait until a safer time and place
to deal with the attacker. The classic example is someone trapped in
a physically abusive relationship with a bigger stronger individual,
a pattern known as battered spouse syndrome.
z
z Criminal law traditionally holds that a battered spouse can claim
self-defense for killing her batterer only if she fights back when she’s
actually being attacked and when the threat to her life is imminent. In
many cases, however, the battered spouse may be much more likely to
be killed herself if she tries to fight back when her batterer is enraged.
119
119
Lecture 4- The Law of Self-Defense
And if the batterer is hitting her with his fists, the law might not allow
her to use a gun to protect herself; that might be seen as an excessive
use of force. As a result, the battered spouse may decide to wait until the
attack is over before taking action.
z
z Cases involving battered spouses have led many courts to reconsider
the rules of self-defense. Some courts have loosened up the imminence
requirement, interpreting it in light of how things would look to
a battered spouse who can’t plausibly fight back. Others have focused
on the requirement that the perception of the threat be reasonable,
concluding that reasonableness should be judged from the perspective
of a reasonable person who’s been battered.
z
z Still other courts have turned to other legal doctrines, such as
diminished mental capacity or acting in the heat of passion, to reduce
charges brought against battered spouses from murder to manslaughter.
Advocacy groups for battered spouses don’t like these alternatives,
however, because they still treat the battered woman as a criminal.
Criminal Law and Procedure
120
THE RETREAT DOCTRINE
z
z The legal requirement of imminence and the prohibition against
excessive force are both closely related to another important aspect of
self-defense law. Some states require that a person must retreat-if it is
possible for him to do so in safety-before using force in self-defense.
This is known as the retreat doctrine.
z
z Judicial decisions in the United States have long been split over the
duty to retreat. Currently, less than half of the states require a person to
retreat before using force in self-defense. These states tend to be located
in the Northeast and Midwest. States that have rejected the retreat
doctrine tend to be located in the South and West. Many of these
adopted an entirely different standard known as the true man doctrine.
121
121
Lecture 4- The Law of Self-Defense
z
z The true man doctrine holds that a “true man” doesn’t run away in the
face of danger; he stands and fights. In states that have adopted the true
man doctrine, even if a person who’s about to be attacked can easily
and safely escape the danger, he doesn’t have to do so. He is legally
authorized to stand and fight, using deadly force if necessary.
z
z The ongoing debate over the retreat doctrine and the true man doctrine
seems to be a reflection of something deeply historical and cultural.
In the South, there’s always been a strong culture of personal honor.
In the West, there is a tendency toward rugged individualism. In the
Northeast and Midwest, by contrast, there’s a greater sense of social
interdependence, and thus a greater willingness to leave the use of
deadly force to law enforcement.
THE CASTLE DOCTRINE
z
z Even in the minority of American states where the retreat doctrine still
prevails, there’s always been a special exception for attacks that occur
inside the home. This is called the castle doctrine. The castle doctrine
holds that you have no legal duty to retreat from an assailant if the
attack happens inside your own home or place of residence. In such
circumstances, if you reasonably fear for your life, you can stand and
fight, using deadly force if necessary.
z
z There’s an increasing tendency in many states to recognize, often by
statute, broader versions of the castle doctrine. These broader versions
often provide that, inside your own home, you can use deadly force not
only in defense of your own life or the life of another, but also to stop
an intruder from committing a felony or other serious crime, such as
robbery, assault, rape, or kidnapping.
z
z Some states have broadened the castle doctrine even further, permitting
the use of deadly force to prevent the commission of any crime by
a trespasser inside your home. In some states, deadly force can be
legally used to stop an unknown person from forcibly entering your
home, even if you don’t know why they’re trying to get in. A few states
even extend the castle doctrine to cover illegal entry into your vehicle.
Criminal Law and Procedure
122
z
z These broader versions of the castle alter the traditional rule that you
can only use force that’s proportionate, and not excessive, relative to
the specific threat you perceived. In fact, many of these laws create
a legal presumption that the use of deadly force is permitted against
any intruder, on the theory that you can reasonably assume anyone
trying to break into your home intends to do you or your loved ones
lethal harm.
z
z The broadening of the castle doctrine in certain states doesn’t mean
you can accomplish the same thing by setting up a booby trap, a spring
gun rigged to fire automatically, or some other such device. Many
people have gone to prison for injuring or killing trespassing criminals
in that manner-primarily because such devices are incapable of
exercising any kind of reasonable judgment based on the facts of the
particular situation.
z
z Keep in mind that state laws vary widely and sometimes change rapidly.
This course is not meant to be source of legal advice. The only person
who can give you proper legal advice is a licensed attorney who is well
versed in the laws of your particular state.
STAND-YOUR-GROUND LAWS
z
z The longstanding debate between the retreat doctrine and the true man
doctrine has been pushed aside in many states by the enactment of socalled stand-your-ground laws. The Florida stand-your-ground statute
was one of the first to be enacted, and several other states used it as
a model. The Florida statute provides:
A person who is not engaged in an unlawful activity, and who
is attacked in any place where he or she has a right to be, has
no duty to retreat and has the right to stand his or her ground
and meet force with force, including deadly force if he or she
reasonably believes it is necessary to do so to prevent death or
great bodily harm to himself or herself or another or to prevent
the commission of a forcible felony.
123
123
Lecture 4- The Law of Self-Defense
z
z Notice that the statute eliminates any duty to retreat before using
force in self-defense, and it allows the use of force-including deadly
force-to stop or prevent any forcible felony, such as a robbery. In
effect, the statute takes a broad version of the castle doctrine, a doctrine
traditionally limited to defense of your home, and applies it to any place
in the world you have a right to be.
z
z There are two huge, unanswered empirical questions about stand-yourground laws. The first is whether such laws make the world a safer place
by deterring illegal behavior, or a more dangerous place by encouraging
people to rely on guns for protection from trouble.
z
z The second unanswered question is whether such laws have the
unintended effect of making the world a more dangerous place for
people who only seem to be threatening because of who they are and
what they look like. In a society where young black men are often
perceived as especially dangerous, stand-your-ground laws could make
it especially dangerous to be a young black man.
Criminal Law and Procedure
124
POLICE USE OF DEADLY FORCE
z
z Police shootings of young black men erupted onto the American
political scene in August 2014 with the death of Michael Brown in
Ferguson, Missouri. The police officer who shot Brown was cleared of
all criminal charges, but not without considerable controversy.
z
z The law governing police use of deadly force is surprisingly opaque.
The Supreme Court has held that, under the Fourth Amendment,
police officers can’t use deadly force to stop fleeing criminals unless
they present a significant risk of death or serious bodily injury to the
officers or to others. Police officers charged with a crime can also avail
themselves of the doctrine of self-defense, if applicable.
z
z Police officers have a special duty not to retreat from danger, even where
others might have to. Given their special training and experience, they
might also have a duty to be more prudent in their use of deadly force
than civilians might be. So far, the courts haven’t said much about
how these considerations might affect the legality of police use of
deadly force.
125
125
Lecture 4- The Law of Self-Defense
z
z In the end, the use of deadly force by police and by private citizenswhether to apprehend a fleeing criminal, to protect oneself or others
from potential danger, or simply to stand up for law and order-is likely
to remain highly contentious as we continue to debate how best to build
a safe, fair, and just society.
Suggested Reading
<
< People v. Goetz.
<
< Mobley v. State.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do you agree with the verdict reached and the lenient
punishment imposed in the Goetz case?
Þ
Þ How do you feel about modern stand-your-ground laws,
like the one in Florida? Why do you feel that way?
126
Lecture 5
FEDERAL CRIMES AND
FEDERAL POWER
T
here are important distinctions in scope, meaning, and effect between
state criminal law and federal criminal law. In this lecture, you’ll
learn about the limits placed by the United States Constitution on
the federal government’s power to enact criminal laws. You’ll also examine
some of the ways that federal crimes differ from state crimes.
LIMITED AUTHORITY
z
z The United States federal government may be the most powerful
government in the world, but its power to prohibit and punish crimes
is relatively constrained. For example, even if Congress were to decide
that murder had become a national crisis requiring a concerted
response, it would be patently unconstitutional for Congress to pass
a federal statute criminalizing all murders.
127
127
Lecture 5- Federal Crimes and Federal Power
z
z Shortly after the Revolutionary War ended, delegates from the 13
former colonies met in Philadelphia to draft a Constitution. The
delegates knew they had to forge a strong union, but the last thing
they wanted to was create a federal government that might become too
strong. After all, they’d just fought a long and bloody war to gain their
freedom from an overbearing central government-the British Crown.
z
z James Madison, a delegate from Virginia, proposed a solution that
was simple but brilliant: The newly independent states would agree to
give up only a few of their
sovereign powers to the new
federation.
Within
those
few areas of sovereignty
specifically granted to the
federal government by the
text of the Constitution, the
federal government would
reign
supreme.
But
all
other sovereign powers of
government would remain
with the states-and in those
areas, the federal government
would have no authority
at all, and the states would
retain complete sovereignty.
z
z This
system
of
dual
sovereignty has helped keep
America both strong and
free for more than 200 years.
As Madison and the other
framers of the Constitution
recognized, individual liberty can be better protected by having two
governments, because those two governments will constantly compete
with each other for power, which will help keep both of them in check.
Criminal Law and Procedure
128
z
z In the Constitution, the framers listed a number of specific powers
that would be transferred by the states to the new federal government.
Among these enumerated powers were those necessary to raise and
maintain a military, to engage in foreign affairs and diplomacy, to
control immigration and customs, to create a national currency, to
construct a national transportation system of
post roads and waterways, to encourage
invention and the creative arts through
patents and copyrights, and to regulate
interstate and foreign commerce.
z
z One very important power not
given to the federal government
was the general power to act
in the best interests of
the American people.
This
fundamental
power of sovereign
governments om e t i m e s
called
the
h e a l t h,
safety,
129
129
and wellness power, or the police power-remains, to this day, with
the states. And it is this power that allows the states to create generally
applicable criminal laws. The federal government, by contrast, can
create a criminal law only if it is within the scope of federal power
under the Constitution.
z
z Federal crimes fall into one of three broad categories. The first involves
criminal statutes that are directly related to a power enumerated in the
Constitution. For example, Congress can make counterfeiting a federal
crime, based on its authority to create a national currency. Congress
can also make it a federal crime to blow up a post office, or to enter
the country illegally. According to the Constitution, these are federal
matters.
z
z Second, Congress can enact criminal laws to govern federal places, such
as the District of Columbia, military bases, and other federal lands. The
same principle applies to areas that lie outside the legal jurisdiction of
any state, such as the offshore territorial waters of the United States, or
the air and space above.
z
z Third, Congress can enact federal criminal statutes to protect the federal
government itself, its institutions, and its officers and employees. This
is akin to the doctrine of self-defense for individuals, and it’s an implied
power that belongs inherently to all governments. It was this basis upon
which Congress, following the Kennedy assassination, passed a law
making it a federal crime to assassinate the President.
z
z The requirement that all federal crimes be based upon a proper
assertion of federal power as authorized by the Constitution
represents one of the most important differences between
federal criminal law and state criminal law. It’s also
why more than 90 percent of all crimes in the
United States are based on state law, and
must therefore be prosecuted by state
authorities in state courts.
Criminal Law and Procedure
130
BROAD READINGS
z
z Despite its limitations, the role of the federal government in defining,
prosecuting, and punishing crimes has grown significantly over the
years. In the earliest decades of American history, there were very few
federal crimes. But over time, the scope of federal constitutional power
has increased-and with it, the scope of federal criminal law.
z
z Much of the expansion of federal criminal law has been based on
the federal government’s authority to regulate interstate and foreign
commerce. When the framers drafted the Constitution, there wasn’t
much interstate or foreign commerce to speak of; most commerce was
entirely local. That gradually changed over the course of the 19th and
20th centuries. Commerce that was originally local became regional,
then national, and eventually global. This meant that the scope of
Congress’s power to regulate had also changed.
z
z During the Great Depression of the 1930s, Americans turned to a new
President-Franklin Delano Roosevelt-who promised to bring about
a New Deal and solve the greatest economic crisis in our history.
With the help of a willing Congress, Roosevelt immediately began to
implement a series of bold new federal laws designed to regulate many
aspects of the national economy, in the hopes of increasing employment
and reducing poverty.
z
z The new laws were initially struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court. The
Court ruled that, under the Commerce Clause, the federal government
could not regulate the economy in general-only economic activity that
actually crossed state lines. Around 1937, however, the Court began to
change its views about the Commerce Clause.
z
z The expansion of the Commerce Clause reached its apogee in the
1942 case Wickard v. Filburn, in which the Court held that Congress
can regulate even purely intrastate commercial activity as long as that
activity has some effect on interstate commerce. Given the increasingly
interconnected nature of the American economy, this meant that
Congress could regulate almost anything.
131
131
Lecture 5- Federal Crimes and Federal Power
z
z In the 1995 case United States
v. Lopez, the Supreme Court
demonstrated that Congress’s power
to legislate under the Commerce
Clause was not truly unlimited. In
Lopez, the Court held that the Gun
Free School Zones Act, a federal
statute making it a crime to carry
a firearm within a school zone,
exceeded Congress’s power under
the Commerce Clause. According
to the Court, the Commerce Clause
requires a substantial effect on
interstate commerce, not one that is
speculative and remote.
COMPLEX CASES
z
z Many federal crimes involve complicated subjects, from securities
transactions to food safety. Sometimes these complex federal laws are
aimed primarily at businesses and the people who run them. In such
situations, the federal courts typically have little sympathy for claims
by corporate defendants that they didn’t know what the law required of
them. If you’re running a business in a heavily regulated industry, you
have an obligation to find out what the relevant legal requirements are.
z
z Sometimes, however, complex federal laws affect average citizens. The
Supreme Court has adopted two special rules to protect average citizens
from unfair criminal liability due to overly complicated federal statutes.
These rules are much more lenient to federal criminal defendants than
most state laws would be.
z
z The first special rule is that a defendant must know the facts that
make his conduct illegal. The second rule provides that in some
cases-prosecutions based on complex portions of the federal tax
code, for example-an honest mistake about what the law requires can
be a defense.
Criminal Law and Procedure
132
z
z Perhaps the strangest aspect of the often confusing relationship
between federal criminal law and state criminal law is the way that, over
the years, federal and state statutes have inconsistently regulated the
production, sale, and possession of marijuana. Despite recent changes
in state law, marijuana is currently still designated by the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Agency as a dangerous drug, and its production, sale, and
possession remained strictly prohibited under federal law.
z
z This odd discrepancy between state and federal law has led to all sorts
of practical problems. It can be very difficult, for example, to get a bank
account or a loan for a marijuana business in states where marijuana
has been legalized, because the activity in question remains a serious
federal crime. Similarly, it can be difficult to find lawyers willing to give
legal advice about matters relating to the marijuana industry, because
such advice could be construed as telling someone how to commit
a federal crime-which could get a lawyer disbarred, if not prosecuted.
133
133
Lecture 5- Federal Crimes and Federal Power
z
z The Constitution provides that, within the proper scope of the federal
enumerated powers, federal law reigns supreme. This means that the
states that have legalized marijuana are deliberately skating on thin ice,
hoping that the federal government decides not to enforce federal law.
This dynamic has created what amounts to a new frontier in the neverending battle of federalism.
Suggested Reading
<
< Wickard v. Filburn.
<
< United States v. Lopez.
<
< Staples v. United States.
<
< Cheek v. United States.
<
< Ratzlaf v. United States.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should the federal government have the power to enact
general criminal laws?
Þ
Þ Do you agree with the Supreme Court’s decision to
let Cheek off the hook for tax evasion, given his
(unreasonable) belief that he didn’t have to pay taxes?
134
Lecture 6
CRUEL AND UNUSUAL
PUNISHMENTS
T
he Eighth Amendment, which regulates the punishments that society
can inflict upon those who are convicted of crimes, is a constitutional
enigma. In this lecture, we’ll explore the history and meaning
of the Eighth Amendment-specifically, its ban on cruel and unusual
punishments-to discover why it’s been so problematic for courts to apply
to real-world criminal cases.
LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE
z
z Ronald Allen Harmelin was convicted in a Michigan court of simple
possession of 672 grams of cocaine. For this crime, he was sentenced
to a mandatory term of life imprisonment without possibility of
parole-even though he had not been found to be a drug dealer, and
even though he had no prior felony convictions. The trial judge had no
choice, because the Michigan statute required imposition of the lifewithout-parole sentence.
z
z Harmelin appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, arguing that his lifewithout-parole sentence violated the Eighth Amendment’s ban on
cruel and unusual punishments because the sentence was wildly
disproportionate to the seriousness of his crime. In Harmelin v.
Michigan, decided in 1991, the Supreme Court rejected Harmelin’s
claim and upheld the sentence.
z
z There was no single majority opinion in Harmelin. Instead, two
separate opinions-one by Justice Antonin Scalia and the other by
Justice Anthony Kennedy-had to be added together to produce
135
135
Lecture 6- Cruel and Unusual Punishments
the result. Justice Scalia’s opinion rejected Harmelin’s argument on
the ground that the Eighth Amendment doesn’t require any kind of
proportionality between crime and punishment.
z
z According to Scalia, the Eighth Amendment
prohibits only “cruel methods of
punishment that are not regularly or
customarily employed.” In other words,
it precludes the legislature from enacting
specific kinds of punishment, such as the
medieval rack, that would be cruel and
unusual as applied to any crime.
z
z Justice Kennedy’s concurring opinion
articulated a somewhat broader view of
the purpose and effect of the Eighth
Amendment. According to Kennedy, the ban
on cruel and unusual punishments prohibits
both particular kinds of punishment
that are always cruel and unusual, as well
as punishments disproportionate to the
particular crime.
z
z Kennedy pointed out that the Supreme Court had recognized
a proportionality principle within the Eighth Amendment for more
than 80 years, and he was unwilling to overturn that precedent. At the
same time, Kennedy tried to clarify the scope of this proportionality
principle-and in so doing, essentially guaranteed that it would never
be used to invalidate a prison sentence.
z
z Under either Justice Scalia’s narrow view of the Eighth Amendment or
Justice Kennedy’s slightly broader view, it would be nearly impossible
to find any prison sentence-even one as severe as mandatory life
imprisonment without possibility of parole-unconstitutional under
the Eighth Amendment. And that’s exactly how things have worked out
in the years since Harmelin was decided.
Criminal Law and Procedure
136
THE DEATH PENALTY
z
z Christopher Simmons, a 17-year-old resident of Missouri, came up with
a plan to murder a woman named Shirley Crook. He convinced two
younger friends to help him. Simmons and one of the friends broke
into Mrs. Crook’s home, bound her hands, covered her eyes, then drove
her to a nearby state park and threw her off a bridge. Simmons later
confessed. He was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced
to death.
z
z Simmons appealed his sentence to the U.S. Supreme Court, claiming
that it would violate the Eighth Amendment to execute a defendant
whose crime was committed before the defendant turned 18. At the
time, of the 38 states with valid death penalty statutes on their books,
18 prohibited imposing the death penalty on anyone under the age of
18. Missouri was not one of them.
z
z In Roper v. Simmons, a 5-4 majority of the Supreme Court found
application of the death penalty to a juvenile under age 18 to be cruel
and unusual punishment, and therefore unconstitutional under the
Eighth Amendment. In a majority opinion written by Justice Kennedy,
the Court held that Missouri was constitutionally barred from imposing
the death penalty against a juvenile because most other states wouldn’t
allow such a punishment.
z
z Kennedy’s opinion noted that 12 states had no death penalty at all,
which-combined with the 18 states that limited the death penalty
to defendants over the age of 18-added up to a majority of 30 states
rejecting the juvenile death penalty. a few of those states had done so in
the preceding few years, making it look like some kind of a trend was
developing in the states.
z
z Justice Scalia, in dissent, rejected the majority’s conclusion that this
evidence represented an emerging “national consensus” against the
juvenile death penalty, given that 20 states, including Missouri, still
authorized such a punishment. Scalia also pointed out the strangeness
of counting states that didn’t have a death penalty at all, describing
137
137
Lecture 6- Cruel and Unusual Punishments
this as comparable to “including old-order Amishmen in a consumerpreference poll on the electric car. Of course they don’t like it,” Scalia
wrote, “but that sheds no light whatever on the point at issue.”
z
z Kennedy’s majority opinion also included an extensive discussion of the
psychology of juveniles, in an effort to show that juveniles are both less
likely to be fully responsible for their actions, and more likely to change
and possibly rehabilitate in the future. Kennedy added that abolishing
the juvenile death penalty would bring America into alignment with
other civilized nations around the world.
z
z The contrast in approach between Harmelin v. Michigan and Roper
v. Simmons could not be more striking. Harmelin is based on almost
complete deference to the state legislature’s judgment about criminal
punishment. Roper, by contrast, reveals an interventionist Court
looking to overturn the state legislature’s decision. The best explanation
for this disparity is that the Court has long viewed the death penalty as
a special case under the Eighth Amendment.
Criminal Law and Procedure
138
THE COUNTER-MAJORITARIAN DILEMMA
z
z The counter-majoritarian dilemma refers to the fact that the Supreme
Court and the Constitution often operate by imposing limits on what
the majority in society can do. Legislatures generally follow the will of
the people, and so, too, does the executive. But every once in a while,
the Supreme Court steps in to protect the rights of the minority.
z
z The majority doesn’t need the same kind of protection, because the
majority can get what it wants through the political process. The
minority can’t. That’s why the Constitution sets forth fundamental
values and norms that are meant to transcend the ever-changing
sentiments of the day and limit the potential harm to the minority.
z
z The dilemma is that the Supreme Court is acutely aware that its own
power is severely limited. The Court has no way to enforce its own
decisions; it doesn’t have a military, and its police force consists of
a few officers tasked with protecting the Supreme Court building. So
whenever the Court makes a decision, it has to turn to the political
branches of government, state and federal, to enforce that decision.
z
z Whenever the Supreme Court is about to make a decision that’s going
to be unpopular with a majority of the American people, or even
the people within a particular state, the Court always has to thinkand swallow-hard. Yes, the Court sometimes has to stand up to the
majority. But the Court can’t do it too often, or go too far, without
risking a loss of respect and public legitimacy. That’s the countermajoritarian dilemma.
z
z The counter-majoritarian dilemma doesn’t mean that the Court does
whatever it thinks the majority wants. Rather, it’s that the Court always
keeps a close eye on what the majority wants, so that the Court can
protect its own legitimacy in the eyes of the public. This is a subtle but
absolutely crucial aspect of how the Court functions.
139
139
Lecture 6- Cruel and Unusual Punishments
z
z The Eighth Amendment, with its plain and simple text, highlights the
counter-majoritarian dilemma. When the Court decides to invalidate
a democratically approved punishment under the Eighth Amendment,
the Court must declare-publicly-that the legislature that authorized
the punishment, the jury of citizens that voted to convict the defendant,
and the judge who imposed the sentence all behaved in a manner
that’s “cruel.”
Criminal Law and Procedure
140
z
z This is why the Court has traditionally viewed the Eighth Amendment
in terms of the “evolving standards of decency” of a “maturing society,”
and has looked for the clearest possible evidence of a national consensus
before striking down a punishment as cruel and unusual. It’s also
why very few punishments-outside the unique context of the death
penalty-have ever been struck down by the Court.
Suggested Reading
<
< Harmelin v. Michigan.
<
< Roper v. Simmons.
<
< Furman v. Georgia.
<
< Gregg v. Georgia.
<
< Trop v. Dulles.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Does the U.S. Supreme Court-as an unelected branch of
the federal government-play too large a role in resolving
major social issues and controversies in America?
Þ
Þ How do you feel about the death penalty, and why?
141
Lecture 7
DUE PROCESS AND THE
RIGHT TO COUNSEL
I
n the modern era of criminal procedure, due process and effective legal
assistance are considered fundamental rights, guaranteed by the U.S.
Constitution to defendants in all criminal proceedings, state and federal.
But this wasn’t always the case. This lecture examines the development
of the law in this area, including the shift in constitutional interpretation
that allowed the U.S. Supreme Court to change the way states handle
criminal scases.
INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
z
z Adopted in 1791, the first 10 amendments to the U.S. Constitution
were the result of a political compromise. Some framers wanted to
emphasize that the new federal government should not interfere with
the most important rights of individual citizens. Others thought this
was obvious, and feared that listing particular rights might suggest that
others were not protected. Eventually, the two sides agreed to draft a set
of 10 amendments-what became known as the Bill of Rights-to be
adopted shortly after ratification.
z
z The Bill of Rights was designed only to protect individual rights
against the new federal government. The various state governments
were already in existence, and they had constitutions of their ownincluding their own provisions concerning individual rights.
Criminal Law and Procedure
142
z
z Many of the guarantees written into the Bill of Rights involved the
rights of people accused of crimes. This makes sense, because one of
the most important powers of government is the power to lock someone
up-or even execute them-as punishment for committing a crime.
z
z One of the abiding lessons of the Civil War was that states can’t always
be trusted to protect the rights of their own citizens. The states that had
joined the Confederacy continued to persecute freed slaves, even after
the war was over. To address this issue, the Constitution was amended.
One of the so-called Civil War Amendments was the Fourteenth
Amendment, which provides:
All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States, and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State
deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws.
143
143
Lecture 7- Due Process and the Right to Counsel
z
z The Fourteenth Amendment emphasizes the concept of national
citizenship. Prior to the Civil War, most Americans considered
themselves citizens only of their particular state. But the Fourteenth
Amendment says otherwise: “All persons born or naturalized in the
United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States, and of the State wherein they reside.”
z
z As part of this new concept of national citizenship, the Fourteenth
Amendment provides that the states can’t take away a person’s life,
liberty, or property without due process of law. And the federal
government will enforce this new constitutional right of due processas well as the right to equal protection of the laws-against any possible
infringement by the states.
z
z The Civil War Amendments represented a turning point in American
constitutional law. They were the first amendments to the Constitution
to directly address, and directly limit, the power of the states to act in
ways that might harm their own citizens. This was a huge shift in the
balance of American federalism.
DUE PROCESS
z
z With the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868, the U.S.
Supreme Court became responsible for ensuring that state officials
wouldn’t deprive people of life, liberty, or property, without “due
process of law.” This was very important for criminal justice, as the
vast majority of criminal cases were and are prosecuted by state
governments. And in criminal cases, the life, liberty, or property of the
defendant is always on the line.
z
z The word “process,” defined literally, means “procedure.” The Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment thus has something to
do with the specific procedures a state must follow if it wants to take
away your life, liberty, or property.
Criminal Law and Procedure
144
z
z The Supreme Court had to figure out how to give sensible meaning
to this vague constitutional language. In the late 19th century, the
Court took a conservative approach. Basically, the Court held that the
procedures to which the Due Process Clause entitles you are whatever
procedures the state has written into its validly enacted statutes and
rules. Once a state enacts a law that guarantees you a particular form of
process, the state must follow that law.
z
z By the early 20th century, the Court became concerned that this
approach wasn’t protective enough. At the time, all a state had to do to
deny someone a right was enact a new law stating that people no longer
have that particular right.
z
z In the landmark case Powell v. Alabama, the Supreme Court held that
the procedures to which the defendants had been subjected violated
the Fourteenth Amendment’s Due Process Clause. More specifically,
the Court held that the defendants were denied a fair trial by virtue
of the fact that they were essentially forced to go to trial without
the assistance of counsel.
145
145
Lecture 7- Due Process and the Right to Counsel
z
z The Court in Powell adopted a more rigorous analysis for potential Due
Process violations, examining whether the state’s established criminal
procedures-or the application of those procedures in the case at
hand-provided the defendant with a “fundamentally fair” trial. If not,
the procedures were held to be a violation of the Due Process Clause.
z
z In practice, analyzing the fundamental fairness of criminal procedures
often required judges to rely purely on their own intuition. In one
case, decided in 1952, California forcibly pumped the stomach of
a criminal suspect to make him disgorge illegal drugs he’d swallowed.
The Supreme Court held that this procedure violated the Due Process
Clause because it “shock[ed] the conscience.”
z
z Much later, in 1993, Justices Blackmun and
Scalia got into a spat over the procedures used
in a Texas death penalty case. On behalf of
several dissenting justices, Blackmun wrote
that the state’s procedures had indeed
shocked the conscience-to which Scalia
replied, “perhaps they should doubt the
calibration of their consciences, or better
still, the usefulness of ‘conscience shocking’
as a legal test.”
z
z Fundamental fairness is a vague standard, and was therefore dependent
entirely on the subjective views of nine unelected Supreme Court
justices. To address this problem, the Court began trying to tie the
concept of fundamental fairness to something a little more concrete.
Specifically, they began to consider whether the procedures at issue
were fundamental in light of the country’s Anglo-American history
and tradition.
z
z This new approach enabled the Court to look to respected historical
sources-the Magna Carta, for example, or the Declaration of
Independence-to decide whether a particular procedure violated the
Due Process Clause. Many sources proved to be too vague, however, so
the Court turned to the Bill of Rights.
Criminal Law and Procedure
146
z
z The incorporation of the Bill of Rights into the Fourteenth
Amendment’s Due Process Clause played a central role in the criminal
procedure revolution of the 1960s. The Supreme Court, led by Chief
Justice Earl Warren, applied the federal constitutional provisions found
in the Bill of Rights against the states, forcing states to provide better
treatment for all criminal defendants.
z
z By the end of the 1960s, every criminal procedure guaranteed by the
Bill of Rights with respect to federal cases had been incorporated, and
was thus applicable to state criminal cases as well-with the singular
exception of the Fifth Amendment’s right to grand jury review of
criminal charges, which was never incorporated.
z
z Procedures that were incorporated include the prohibition of
unreasonable searches and seizures, the requirement that warrants be
based on probable cause, the freedom not to testify against yourself,
and the right to a jury trial. States must now provide these procedures,
along with all others incorporated by the Supreme Court, to each and
every criminal defendant.
THE RIGHT TO COUNSEL
z
z The Supreme Court’s most famous incorporation case was Gideon v.
Wainwright. On March 18, 1963, the Court ruled unanimously that,
by refusing to provide an indigent named Clarence Earl Gideon with
a defense lawyer for his felony criminal trial, Florida had denied Gideon
his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel as guaranteed by
the Sixth Amendment-and as applied to Florida by means of the
Fourteenth Amendment’s Due Process Clause.
z
z Today, the right to counsel applies not only to felonies, but also to
any misdemeanor case where the defendant receives any actual
imprisonment. The right to counsel is no panacea, but it’s still the most
important procedural right that criminal defendants have.
147
147
Lecture 7- Due Process and the Right to Counsel
z
z Unfortunately, the criminal justice system still works unequally.
Rich criminal defendants hire the best lawyers money can buy. Poor
defendants are assigned public defenders, many of whom are juggling
massive caseloads that would crush most lawyers. Public defenders also
don’t have access to expensive investigators and jury consultants.
z
z In the 1984 case Strickland v. Washington, the Court held that the
Sixth Amendment guarantees a criminal defendant not just any lawyer,
but a reasonably effective lawyer. The standard used by the Court in
Strickland to evaluate the defendant’s representation is one that still
governs claims based on ineffective assistance of counsel.
z
z In Strickland, the Court held that, in order to get a conviction or sentence
overturned based on ineffective assistance of counsel, the defendant
must show two things: (1) The defense lawyer’s performance fell below
an objectively reasonable standard, given prevailing professional norms
in the area; and (2) The lawyer’s subpar performance was prejudicial
to the defendant, in the sense that the outcome might reasonably have
been different had adequate representation been provided.
Criminal Law and Procedure
148
z
z The Strickland test is very difficult to satisfy. Most criminal defendants
have lots of evidence against them, which means that even the best
defense lawyer likely couldn’t get them acquitted. As a result, most
defendants wouldn’t be able to satisfy the prejudice prong of the
Strickland test.
z
z In essence, the Strickland test allows the courts to overturn convictions
or sentences only in the most extreme cases, where the defense lawyer
did an especially bad job and the defendant would have had a fighting
chance to win with a better lawyer. Otherwise, the defendant has to
accept the outcome of the trial.
Suggested Reading
<
< Powell v. Alabama.
<
< Gideon v. Wainwright.
<
< Strickland v. Washington.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Has the Supreme Court gone too far in providing
criminal defendants with constitutional rights and
procedural protections?
Þ
Þ How can we do a better job of providing equal justice
under the law?
149
Lecture 8
GOVERNMENT SEARCHES
AND PRIVACY RIGHTS
I
n this lecture, you’ll explore the fascinating history behind the Fourth
Amendment. You’ll also look closely at the amendment’s scope, examining
in particular the terms “search” and “seizure.” These terms define the
nature and extent of the Fourth Amendment’s privacy protections, and
greatly influence how the police investigate crimes.
HISTORY AND PURPOSE
z
z The Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution provides:
The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated. And no Warrants shall issue,
but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation,
and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the
persons or things to be seized.
z
z The Fourth Amendment was one of the most important provisions
written into the Bill of Rights. Indeed, the American Revolution was
motivated in significant measure by the resentment the colonists
felt about the fact that British soldiers-armed only with a “general
warrant,” based on some vague claim that someone was an enemy of
the Crown-could barge into that person’s home, perhaps even in the
middle of the night, and ransack it, looking for seditious papers or
other evidence of disloyalty.
Criminal Law and Procedure
150
z
z The Fourth Amendment was designed to accomplish two different
but related goals. The second half of the amendment, with its list of
requirements for a warrant, was designed to eliminate the hated general
warrant. In America, warrants would have to describe specifically what
the authorities were looking for, as well as where they could go looking
for it. Warrants would also have to be based on sworn statements
indicating that evidence of a crime would be found, and could be issued
only if they were based on probable cause.
z
z The first half of the amendment, by contrast, is written in more general
terms. It was designed to prohibit all searches and seizures that are
“unreasonable,” whether or not those searches or seizures involved
a warrant. But the grand language of the amendment leaves one key
question unanswered: What qualifies as a “search” or a “seizure”?
z
z Defining “search” and “seizure” is important, because these terms
let us know when the protections of the Fourth Amendment apply.
If a particular activity isn’t considered a search or a seizure, the
amendment doesn’t regulate it. This means that the government can act
that way to anyone, for any reason, as
often as it wants.
151
151
Lecture 8- Government Searches and Privacy Rights
EXPECTATIONS OF PRIVACY
z
z In the early years of the Fourth Amendment, there was a pretty clear
consensus about what was a “search.” The framers believed in the
sanctity of private property rights almost as much as they believed in
privacy. So a “search” basically meant any action that infringes on your
private property, for the purpose of a government investigation.
z
z During the 18th and 19th centuries, Fourth Amendment notions of
privacy and property were inextricably linked: Your privacy was
protected because your property was protected. For a nation whose very
concept of citizenship-including the right to vote-was often based
on the ownership of land, this property-based approach to the Fourth
Amendment made some sense.
z
z The Fourth Amendment’s protection is no longer limited to cases where
property rights are infringed. Over the years, the U.S. Supreme Court
has been forced to adopt a more expansive interpretation. These days,
a reasonable expectation of privacy is all that’s required for the Fourth
Amendment to apply.
z
z The Court’s privacy-based approach ran into trouble almost as soon
as it was adopted. In United States v. White, the defendant, James
A. White, was suspected of involvement in illegal narcotics. The
government convinced one of White’s friends to wear a concealed radio
transmitter and talk to him about the crimes. No warrant was obtained.
White said incriminating things, and the tapes were used to convict
him. The Court held that this was not a “search” within the meaning of
the Fourth Amendment, and thus that which no warrant was required.
z
z In White, the Court noted that any time a person shares a secret with
another person, it’s no longer really a secret. If you choose to confide
your crimes to a trusted friend, you must realize that he or she might go
to the police and report what you said. In White’s case, the recording by
police simply ensured the accuracy of his friend’s report. Any subjective
expectation of privacy White may have had was, at least according to
the Court, unreasonable.
Criminal Law and Procedure
152
z
z The legal implications of sharing information with a third party have
returned with a vengeance in the modern era of cellular phones, e-mail,
and social media. But before we get there, let’s look at a few other cases
where the Supreme Court applied an empirical view of privacy and
reasonable expectations to reach a problematic result.
z
z In Oliver v. United States, police officers-without a warrant-drove
onto Oliver’s property and past his house. They exited their car, walked
past a gate marked “No Trespassing,” and continued walking for over
a mile across open fields until they found Oliver’s marijuana plants. The
Court held that this was not a “search” under the Fourth Amendment,
because everybody knows that stuff you do in open fields might not
remain private. For one thing, airplanes might fly overhead and see
your stuff. Similarly, hikers might come onto your land and see your
stuff, despite your “No Trespassing” signs. Oliver lost.
z
z In Florida v. Riley, the defendant’s marijuana plants were in an enclosed
greenhouse, right up against the side of his home. The police, without
a warrant, hovered 400 feet above Riley’s house in a helicopter until
they were able to see the marijuana. The Court held that this was not
a “search,” because everybody knows that airplanes and helicopters fly
overhead all the time. The fact that this particular helicopter flew so
low didn’t matter, because the low-altitude flight was permitted by FAA
regulations. Riley lost.
z
z In California v. Greenwood, the question was whether it’s a “search” if
the police, without a warrant, look through your garbage once it’s left
out on the curb-in a closed, opaque plastic bag-for trash pickup. The
Court held that this is was not a “search,” because everybody knows
that sometimes raccoons tear open garbage bags, exposing their
contents to public view. Children, scavengers, and snoops might do
so, too. Plus, the trash collector can be considered a third party with
whom the defendant voluntarily shared his trash. Who knows whether,
or when, the trash collector might decide to go through the garbage to
find something of value? Greenwood lost.
153
153
Lecture 8- Government Searches and Privacy Rights
z
z Using the Supreme Court’s empirical approach, the only relevant issue
is how likely the particular privacy intrusion might be. a normative
approach, by contrast, might generate a different and perhaps more
appropriate inquiry: Instead of assessing how likely it is that raccoons
will go through your garbage, you might ask yourself whether you
want to live in the kind of society where the police can go through your
garbage-without a warrant-every single day, for whatever reason
they want, for the rest of your life.
TECHNOLOGY AND PRIVACY
z
z In today’s tech-driven world, almost every aspect of our lives gets
shared, one way or another, with third parties. Sometimes we share
voluntarily-like posting things for your friends to see on Facebook.
Sometimes, it’s done in a manner that’s technically voluntary, but
almost impossible to resist-like swiping your loyalty card at the
grocery store, which is necessary to get discounts, but also shares your
purchase history with the store and, eventually, other companies too.
z
z In some cases, we share things about us without even thinking
consciously about it-like when you do a search on Google, or when
you agree to certain privacy policies as you sign up for a news or
entertainment website. Other times, the sharing of information is
mandatory-like when the government makes you provide financial
information to the IRS, or to your bank or employer.
z
z Every e-mail you write and text message you send is “shared” with
the companies that provides you with that service, if only so they
can transmit them to the intended recipient. Of course, you’re also
sharing those messages with the intended recipient, which looks a lot
like the third-party sharing that took place in the White case. Does
the government have a free pass to read your messages because you
willingly shared them with someone else?
z
z Other types of information about you get collected by the government
or by private companies without your knowledge or consent. Think
about the now-ubiquitous security and traffic cameras. These cameras
Criminal Law and Procedure
154
generally record things that happen in public places, or in businesses
that are open to the public. They capture information about your lifewhom you’re with, where you’re going, what you’re doing-that you
share without thinking every time you go out in public.
z
z One solution might be to ask our legislatures to enact statutes to
provide us with greater protection than we’d get from the Fourth
Amendment. This has actually been done a few times already. For
example, there’s a federal statute that provides some extra protection
for stored communications, which are copies of messages stored by
Internet Service Providers and wireless carriers.
z
z In 2015, terrorists in San Bernardino, California, killed 14 people and
wounded 22 more. The FBI wanted to get into an encrypted iPhone
belonging to one of the terrorists. They first tried to force Apple
to get around the encryption. When Apple refused, the FBI paid
a hacker more than $1 million to do the job. If that hadn’t worked, it’s
very likely that we would have seen legislation requiring cell phone
companies to provide backdoor access to the government, at least under
certain circumstances.
155
155
Lecture 8- Government Searches and Privacy Rights
z
z In many cases, it falls to the judiciary-the branch of government that’s
supposed to make sure we stay true to our Constitution and our core
values-to regulate the government’s access to information in the age
of technology. If the Supreme Court continues to apply an empirical
standard, the result may be a society where the government-without
a warrant-can get inside our cell phones, our computers, and our
social media accounts, anytime, anywhere, for any reason, as often as
it wants.
Suggested Reading
<
< Boyd v. United States.
<
< Katz v. United States.
<
< United States v. White.
<
< Florida v. Riley.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should the government be granted access to the contents
of a cell phone, without a warrant or probable cause, if
the owner is suspected of being involved in terrorism or
another criminal activity?
Þ
Þ How do you feel about the presence of surveillance
cameras in public places? Do they enhance our security,
or do they invade our privacy?
156
Lecture 9
THE SHRINKING
WARRANT REQUIREMENT
T
his lecture considers the circumstances under which the police are
permitted to enter and search private property without first obtaining
a warrant. It also examines the warrant process, the particulars of
probable cause, and judicial enforcement of the Fourth Amendment’s
protections against unreasonable searches and seizures.
157
157
AVAILABLE REMEDIES
z
z The first half of the Fourth Amendment states that all searches and
seizures must be reasonable. The second half of the amendment sets
forth the constitutional requirements for a valid warrant. What the
amendment doesn’t address is whether all searches-or even mostrequire a warrant. Was this simply an oversight by the framers?
Probably not.
z
z The language of the Fourth Amendment reflects the reality of the
period in which it was written. At the time, most government searches
were based on warrants. There were no professional police forces in the
late 18th century, and the courts hadn’t yet developed the doctrine of
qualified immunity, which protects police against most civil lawsuits.
Law enforcement officers typically obtained a warrant to protect
themselves against lawsuits for trespassing on the private property
being searched.
z
z This history helps to explain another oddity of the Fourth Amendment:
Nowhere in the text does it say what the remedy should be for
a violation of the rights the amendment guarantees. The
framers probably figured that the remedy would be
a civil lawsuit for damages, because that was the
only remedy they knew.
z
z Over
time,
however,
civil
remedies for such violations became
more or less obsolete. Today, the
likelihood of a person successfully
suing a police officer for violating
their Fourth Amendment rights
is pretty close to zero. The only
outliers are lawsuits challenging
police use of excessive force,
which have grown significantly in
both number and dollar amounts
in modern times.
Criminal Law and Procedure
158
z
z Today, the primary legal remedy for Fourth Amendment violations is
the exclusionary rule, which prohibits improperly obtained evidence
from being used to prosecute the person whose rights were violated. The
theory behind the exclusionary rule is that suppressing the evidence
deprives the police of any benefit from an illegal search or seizure, thus
deterring violations in the first place.
z
z There are some important exceptions to the exclusionary rule, such as
the exception for certain “good faith” violations by the police. Another
notable exception concerns evidence that would inevitably have been
found in the absence of any Fourth Amendment violation.
z
z As a practical matter, the only direct beneficiaries of the exclusionary
rule are criminals; if the police don’t find evidence of a crime, there’s
nothing to exclude. And if the police don’t actually care about obtaining
a criminal conviction-if, for example, they want to seize a supply of
drugs and simply move the drug dealers along-the exclusionary rule
doesn’t act as a deterrent. The rule isn’t an ideal remedy, but it’s what
we’ve got.
159
159
Lecture 9- The Shrinking Warrant Requirement
PROBABLE CAUSE
z
z Not all searches and seizures require a valid warrant. If a warrant is
necessary, however, there are several constitutional requirements that
must be met. For example:
�The officer who presents the warrant application to the judge or
magistrate must swear, by oath or affirmation, that the facts stated
in the application are true.
�The facts stated in the application must provide enough information
for the judge or magistrate to make an independent decision about
the warrant’s validity; he can’t just rely on the officer’s judgment.
�The magistrate must be neutral and detached. This means, for
example, that local governments can’t pay magistrates based on how
many warrants they issue. Nor can warrants be issued directly by
prosecutors.
�The warrant describe in detail the evidence to be searched for, as
well as the location where the search will take place. In practice, this
requirement is not particularly stringent. It’s fine, for example, for
the warrant to contain catchalls such as “any other evidence of the
crime under investigation.”
z
z There are also rules for the proper execution of a warrant-most
notably, that police must knock and announce their presence before
trying to enter a home or other premises. The Supreme Court has
held that entering without knocking and announcing first is allowed
only under special circumstances, such as when the police reasonably
suspect that it would be dangerous or futile to do so, or that evidence is
being destroyed inside.
Criminal Law and Procedure
160
z
z The most important requirement for warrants to be valid under the
Fourth Amendment is the requirement of probable cause. The phrase
“probable cause” is a term of art, and a fairly vague one at that. In
Illinois v. Gates, the leading case on probable cause, the Supreme Court
described it as follows:
Probable cause is a fluid concept-turning on the assessment
of probabilities in particular factual contexts-not readily, or
even usefully, reduced to a neat set of legal rules.... The task of
the issuing magistrate is simply to make a practical, commonsense decision whether, given all the circumstances set forth
in the affidavit before him,... there is a fair probability that
contraband or evidence of a crime will be found.
In a footnote, the Court added: “Probable cause requires only
a probability or substantial chance of criminal activity, not an
actual showing of such activity.”
z
z Given this low standard, judges and magistrates approve most warrant
applications-as many as 95 percent of them. But this doesn’t mean
that the standard is useless. A police officer must still go through the
hassle of writing up the warrant application and appearing in front
of the judge or magistrate. This incentivizes the officer to be diligent
in preparing his application; if it’s rejected, his efforts will have
been wasted.
NOTABLE EXCEPTIONS
z
z There are several exceptions to the warrant requirement. For example,
police don’t need to get a warrant when the circumstances are such
that it would be crazy to make them stop and go get one. The classic
example involves an officer chasing someone who just robbed a bank. If
the robber darts into a home, should the police officer have to abandon
the chase and get a warrant before entering the home? Of course not.
That would be crazy.
161
161
Lecture 9- The Shrinking Warrant Requirement
z
z In criminal procedure, the exception illustrated by this example is
known as the exception for exigent circumstances. When a situation
like this arises, police must still have probable cause to justify their
search, but they don’t need to wait for a warrant before doing so.
z
z The other classic example of exigency is when the police knock on
someone’s door and identify themselves as the police, only to hear
excited voices inside saying, “Oh no! It’s the cops, flush the drugs!”
Perhaps they hear the sound of a toilet flushing. In that kind of
situation, it’s equally crazy to make the police wait for a warrant. By
that time, all evidence of criminal activity would likely be destroyed.
z
z Another exception to the warrant requirement is when the police see
evidence in plain view. When this happens, they can seize the evidence
from any place they’re legally allowed to be. For example, if you invite
a police officer into your home, and the officer sees illegal drugs on
your kitchen table, he doesn’t need a warrant to seize the drugs.
z
z In the same example, if the officer is walking down the street and sees
your drugs through an open window, he must obtain a warrant before
entering the house and seizing the drugs. Of course, if he sees you
grab the drugs and start flushing them down the toilet, he won’t need
a warrant; that’s an exigent circumstance.
162
z
z Cars are a big exception to the warrant requirement, for two reasons:
First, cars are mobile, so they create their own “exigency.” Second,
people have a lower expectation of privacy in their cars than they do
in their homes. After all, cars have glass windows and people can see
inside them easily. Cars can also get into accidents, which means that
your privacy might disappear without warning.
z
z The only thing the police need to search a car is probable cause to
believe there’s criminal evidence somewhere inside the car. If they
have it, they can search the entire car without a warrant-including the
glove compartment, the trunk, and any containers in the car, such as
backpacks or suitcases.
z
z The only limit to the automobile exception is that police
can’t search places within the car where probable cause
would be lacking. For example, if the police have probable
cause to believe that you have a stolen big-screen TV
in your car, that doesn’t mean that they can rifle
through the glove compartment.
z
z Even if the police don’t have probable cause,
they can still search your car in the event that
the car gets towed and impounded. In such
cases, police can perform what’s called an
inventory search to make sure that all your
stuff is properly accounted for and doesn’t get
stolen. If the police happen to find evidence
of a crime during said inventory search,
you’re out of luck.
z
z Another notable exception to the warrant
requirement is for searches incident to arrest.
Whenever the police arrest someone, they’re
allowed to search that person automatically,
without a warrant, to make sure that the
person doesn’t have a weapon. Any evidence of
criminal activity they find can then be seized.
163
163
Lecture 9- The Shrinking Warrant Requirement
If the arrest occurs in a building, the police can also search any area
within reach of the person being arrested, to make sure that the person
can’t grab a weapon. They can also look into nearby rooms and closets
to check for others who might attack them.
z
z If a person happens to be in a car when they’re arrested, that provides
the police with two new reasons to search the car: First, they can search
the car for a weapon-but only while the arrestee is still within reach
of the car. Second, even after the arrestee’s in custody, the police can
search the car if there’s reason to think that evidence of the crime might
be found there.
Criminal Law and Procedure
164
z
z In an ever-growing number of situations, warrants are no longer
presumptively required. Instead, police can search without a warrantand even without probable cause-as long as they behave “reasonably.”
In fact, the exceptions to the warrant requirement have become so
numerous that it wouldn’t be much of a stretch to say that, today, the
last bastion of the warrant requirement is the home. Almost everywhere
else, the exceptions have swallowed the rule.
z
z The biggest change occurred the 1968 Supreme Court case Terry
v. Ohio. This is the decision that gave police the authority to stop
a person on the street and ask them questions, as long as the police have
reasonable suspicion that the person is engaged in criminal activity.
Police can also frisk the person, if the frisk is based on their reasonable
suspicion that the person might be armed and dangerous. No probable
cause is required, let alone a warrant.
z
z The Terry decision changed the rules of the Fourth Amendment in the
interest of public safety. But at what cost? Maybe the most significant
cost is that Terry disproportionately affects certain subsets of the
population: racial and ethnic minorities, the poor, the young, and all
those who look different and “scary.” It authorizes police action based
on little more than a hunch that a person might be up to no good. That
kind of police discretion almost inevitably leads to snap judgments
based on appearances, rather than hard evidence.
z
z A search can also be based solely on reasonableness when it serves
a special governmental need, one that’s different from catching
criminals. For example, searches of school lockers can be based on
reasonable suspicion, rather than probable cause, because they’re done
in the interest of school discipline. The same reasoning allows the
desks of government employees to be searched (to promote an effective
workplace), and pilots and train engineers to be tested for drugs (to
protect public safety). Drunk-driving roadblocks and border searches
fall into the same category.
165
165
Lecture 9- The Shrinking Warrant Requirement
z
z Finally, searches are always legal if the police obtain consent for the
search-as long as that consent is voluntary and not coerced. You’d be
surprised how many people with illegal drugs in the trunk of their car
consent to letting the police search the trunk. Consent searches happen
all the time, and police find evidence all the time.
Suggested Reading
<
< Brigham City v. Stuart.
<
< Illinois v. Gates.
<
< Terry v. Ohio.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do you agree with the Supreme Court that people
generally have a much lower expectation of privacy in
their cars?
Þ
Þ Should the ability of police to stop and frisk be expanded,
or should it be limited?
166
Lecture 10
THE FIFTH AMENDMENT
PRIVILEGE
T
he Fifth Amendment provides, in relevant part: “No person... shall
be compelled to be a witness against himself.” This is known as the
privilege against compelled self-incrimination, and it’s a core aspect
of the Bill of Rights. This lecture explores the history behind the privilege
against compelled self-incrimination, the meaning of the constitutional
text, and the various kinds of legal protection the privilege provides.
167
167
Lecture 10- The Fifth Amendment Privilege
HISTORY AND PURPOSE
z
z The privilege against compelled self-incrimination was written into the
Fifth Amendment in direct response to the history of English criminal
prosecutions for sedition and for heresy. In the late 16th and early 17th
centuries, suspected heretics were forced to swear an oath to answer
truthfully, and then asked about their religious beliefs and the identities
of their fellow believers. Later, political dissidents faced the same kind
of treatment.
z
z The Fifth Amendment privilege was designed to end these kinds of
abuses at the hands of government officials. As a Puritan leader once
put it, forcing a man to testify against himself is like putting “the
conscience upon the rack.” But exactly how far does the privilege go?
What’s the scope of the constitutional right to remain silent in the face
of a criminal accusation? That’s a much harder question to answer.
z
z In 1807, the Supreme Court presided over
a criminal case against Aaron Burr, the
former vice president and noted duelist, for
conspiracy and treason. Allegedly, Burr was
part of a conspiracy to take over part of
the American West. During a grand jury
hearing, a witness was called to testify
about copying a document on Burr’s orders.
The witness refused to testify, stating that
he might incriminate himself. Chief Justice
Marshall, who was presiding over the Burr case,
ruled in favor of the witness.
z
z According to Marshall, whenever a witness refuses to answer a question,
the presiding judge must decide whether it’s possible that the answer
might be incriminating. If so, it’s up to the witness to decide whether or
not to answer. And that right extends even to facts that, on their own,
might not be incriminating, but might instead provide a link in a chain
of evidence that could become incriminating.
Criminal Law and Procedure
168
z
z Congress and many state legislatures soon passed new statutes
authorizing government officials to grant immunity from prosecution
to witnesses who asserted their Fifth Amendment privilege in response
to official questioning. These statutes were designed to eliminate the
Fifth Amendment problem, and allow officials to obtain the testimony
of the reluctant witness, by making it impossible for the witness to be
incriminated by his own testimony.
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
z
z There are four requirements that must be satisfied in order for the
Fifth Amendment privilege to apply. First, the person must be under
compulsion to provide the information to the government. The
paradigmatic case of Fifth Amendment compulsion is when a person
is called to testify, under oath, as a witness in court. The compulsion
comes from the fact that, if the witness refuses, they will be held in
contempt of court, and will go to jail.
z
z Another example of compulsion occurs when a suspect gets arrested for
a crime, and the police try to question the suspect. The Supreme Court
held, in the famous Miranda case, that custodial police interrogation
is so inherently coercive that the Fifth Amendment requires police to
provide the now-familiar Miranda warnings to relieve the pressure.
z
z The Court has also recognized that compulsion may be present in
situations where a person’s choice to assert the Fifth Amendment
privilege can itself get them in big trouble. The classic example is the
1965 case Griffin v. California. The defendant chose not to testify,
which led the prosecutor to argue during closing arguments that
the defendant’s decision not to testify was evidence of his guilt. The
Supreme Court held that this was a violation of the Fifth Amendment,
because the prosecutor imposed an impermissible penalty against
Griffin for exercising his Fifth Amendment privilege.
169
169
Lecture 10- The Fifth Amendment Privilege
z
z The second requirement for application of the Fifth Amendment
privilege is that the information requested by the government be
incriminating. Refusal to answer can be punished only if a court can
conclude, with certainty, that the information couldn’t possibly be
incriminating. Otherwise, the person who’s being asked gets to decide.
z
z Sometimes the refusal to answer is based on fear not of criminal
prosecution, but of some other kind of legal trouble. But the Supreme
Court has held that there’s a constitutional distinction between
criminal punishment and civil penalties. For the most part, it’s up to
the legislature to define whether a particular sanction is criminal or
civil. The courts can exercise oversight, however, in situations where
a purportedly civil statute looks more like a criminal one.
z
z The third requirement for application of the Fifth Amendment
privilege is that the person must be giving testimony; that’s what it
means to be a witness against yourself. In Schmerber v. California, the
Supreme Court held that a blood sample taken from the defendant was
not “testimony” for Fifth Amendment purposes. Rather, it was more
like a photograph of the defendant’s face, or his fingerprints.
Criminal Law and Procedure
170
z
z The fourth requirement for application of the Fifth Amendment
privilege is that it the privilege must be asserted. This requirement
can best be illustrated by considering the facts of three Supreme Court
cases. Rather than lying, telling the truth, or even remaining silent,
a suspect or defendant must affirmatively state that he is electing not to
answer the question. He must make it clear that he’s asserting his rights
under the Fifth Amendment.
A DELICATE BALANCE
z
z What happens if the government has a compelling need for information,
but the only source for that information is a person who’s properly
asserted his Fifth Amendment privilege? That’s a big problem, and it
continues to grow as the role of government in our daily lives keeps
expanding-from protecting the safety of our air, water, and food, to
protecting us from identity theft and terrorist attacks. The Supreme
Court has addressed this problem by attempting to strike a delicate
balance between the rights of the individual and the needs of society.
z
z Long ago, the Supreme Court has long held that corporations can’t
assert the Fifth Amendment privilege in order to hide information from
the government. Corporations may enjoy the right to freedom of speech
under the First Amendment, but they don’t have Fifth Amendment
protections against compelled self-incrimination. And both companies
and individuals must turn over any records the government requires
them to keep and maintain on a regular basis-tax and other financial
records, for example.
z
z When push comes to shove, courts sometimes seem to ignore the Fifth
Amendment altogether. In 1988, child welfare officials in Baltimore
obtained a court order requiring an abusive mother to either produce,
or reveal the location of, her young son. The officials feared that the
son, who’d been missing for months, was in danger-and that the
mother, who had serious psychological and drug problems, might even
have killed him. The mother refused to comply, and she was jailed for
contempt of court.
171
171
Lecture 10- The Fifth Amendment Privilege
z
z The sanction against the mother was upheld by the Supreme Court,
which ruled that the Fifth Amendment privilege cannot be invoked
to avoid compliance with legal obligations that serve an important
public purpose unrelated to crime control. Even though the mother
would surely be charged with a crime if her son turned up dead, that
outcome was secondary to the law’s primary goal of protecting the
child’s welfare.
Suggested Reading
<
< Salinas v. Texas.
<
< Griffin v. California.
<
< Brogan v. United States.
<
< Minnesota v. Murphy.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do you agree that a person should forfeit their Fifth
Amendment privilege if they don’t properly assert the
privilege in response to government questioning?
Þ
Þ Should corporations have the same Fifth Amendment
rights as individuals to refuse to provide potentially
incriminating information to the government?
172
Lecture 11
MIRANDA AND POLICE
INTERROGATIONS
T
he Miranda warnings are perhaps the most famous words in the
history of American criminal justice. In this lecture, you’ll learn about
the historical and legal background of the Supreme Court’s decision
in the Miranda case. You’ll also consider what the Miranda warnings mean,
what purposes they serve, and how we as a society should feel about relying
on police interrogations and confessions to solve serious crimes.
EVALUATING VOLUNTARINESS
z
z To understand the historical and legal significance of Miranda, let’s
look back almost 20 years earlier to another famous case. On the
afternoon of November 12, 1947, in Indianapolis, Indiana, police
arrested Robert Watts, a 25-year-old black man, for assault. Shortly
after the arrest, the police began to suspect that Watts was also
responsible for the murder of a white woman whose body had just been
discovered nearby.
z
z For the rest of that day and for the next five days, Watts was held in
solitary confinement at the county jail, with no place to sit or sleep
except the floor. Each night, Watts was taken to police headquarters,
where he was interrogated for hours on end. He was then returned to
his barren jail cell, only to await the next round of interrogation. He
was never told that he had a right to remain silent. He wasn’t allowed to
see his family or friends. And he had no lawyer to represent him.
173
173
Lecture 11- Miranda and Police Interrogations
z
z In the early morning hours of the sixth day in police custody, Watts
finally broke down and signed a written confession. In a letter to the
local chapter of the NAACP, however, Watts later said that he’d been
framed, and that he’d signed the confession only because he “couldn’t
take it any longer” and the police “forced” him to sign it.
z
z When Watts’s appeal came before the Supreme Court-where Watts
was represented by Thurgood Marshall, himself a future Supreme
Court justice-the Court agreed that Watt’s confession had been
“involuntary,” and that it therefore should not have been used as
evidence against him. The decision was based primarily on the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Watt’s conviction
was reversed.
z
z The voluntariness rule recognized in Watts gave the Supreme Court
the legal authority to go after the worst kinds of police abuses during
pretrial interrogations. But it was never going to be a perfect solution.
The Court simply couldn’t keep up with the massive volume of criminal
cases coming up from the lower courts, not to mention the more
sophisticated psychological techniques developed by police.
Criminal Law and Procedure
174
A NEW APPROACH
z
z The Court had to find a new way to control police interrogation tactics
before they got out of hand. Their efforts soon led them to the case of
Ernesto Miranda, who had been convicted in Arizona of the brutal
kidnapping and rape of an 18-year-old girl. Miranda was poor, had
only an eighth-grade education, and had a history of schizophrenia and
other psychological issues.
z
z After the victim picked Miranda out of a lineup, the police arrested him
and subjected him to two hours of strenuous custodial interrogation.
During this time, Miranda was never told he had a right to a lawyer, nor
was he advised that he had a right to remain silent. He was convicted,
and he took his case all the way to the Supreme Court.
z
z In Miranda, the Court adopted the Fifth Amendment privilege against
compelled self-incrimination as the primary basis for regulating police
interrogations. The key analytical move was the Court’s conclusion that
any suspect who is placed under arrest-and thus is in police custodyfaces inherent pressure to confess. This meant that custodial police
interrogations would always violate the Fifth Amendment-unless, the
Court held, the police first give the suspect appropriate legal warnings,
and the suspect waives his rights.
z
z The Miranda warnings are essentially a special form of advance
protection-a prophylactic measure-designed to ensure that
custodial police interrogations don’t reach the point of violating the
Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination.
The warnings tell the suspect that he always remains in control. By
saying the magic words “I’d like to stop now,” the suspect can make the
questioning stop at any time. Or, if he wishes, he can ask for the help of
a lawyer, in which case the questioning also must stop. It’s completely
up to him.
175
175
Lecture 11- Miranda and Police Interrogations
z
z Although Miranda warnings often state that the suspect the right
to an attorney, that doesn’t mean that he’ll instantly be provided
one upon request. Instead, the rule is simply that the police have to
stop questioning the suspect as soon as he asks for a lawyer. In most
instances, the suspect won’t actually receive a lawyer until much later.
Criminal Law and Procedure
176
VOLUNTARINESS REVISITED
z
z If police officers physically assault or beat a man in order to make
him confess, almost everyone would agree that that’s an involuntary
confession. These are the easy cases. Even in the modern context of
mass terrorism, where some have argued that torture can be morally
justified to save thousands of lives, no good attorneys believe that the
resulting confession should be used as evidence in a court of law.
z
z One way of looking at voluntariness is that everything we choose to do,
or not to do, is the product of a myriad of influences all around us-our
genes, our family, our friends, our enemies, our education, the laws of
science. From this perspective, nothing we do is ever truly voluntary.
z
z Now consider the opposite perspective. Even if someone puts a gun to
your head and orders you to do something, you still have a choice. It’s
a difficult choice, of course; if you disobey the order, you take the bullet.
But it’s not an impossible choice, and people do make it on occasion.
From this perspective, you always have a choice.
177
177
Lecture 11- Miranda and Police Interrogations
z
z As these examples demonstrate, voluntariness can’t be defined simply
as the ability to choose, or as an exercise of free will. That’s far too
simplistic. Every human action involves some aspects of compulsion and
some of free will. This contradiction-free will versus determinismhas been the subject of philosophical debate for millennia. It’s the
fundamental antinomy of the human condition.
z
z From a legal perspective, we have to think about voluntariness in
a different way. In Miranda, the Supreme Court didn’t try to regulate
all the strategies and psychological tricks used by the police-strategies
that will surely evolve endlessly into the future. Instead, the Court
established a clearer and simpler rule for police to follow.
z
z If you’re a police officer, all you have do is read the Miranda warnings
and get the suspect’s waiver, and then you can pretty much do whatever
you want-as long as you don’t cross the line into physical force or
abuse. You can still lie to the suspect about the evidence against him.
You can still tell him that his associates are turning on him, and that
he should hurry up and spill the beans first. You can still tell him that
you’re his friend, and that you’ll help him get more lenient treatment if
he confesses.
z
z How does Miranda protect the suspect against these kinds of
psychological tactics by the police? The answer is that it doesn’t-at
least not directly. At any time, if the psychological pressure gets to be
too much, the suspect can always say the magic words, and the police
will have to leave him alone. But it’s entirely up to the suspect. After
he agrees to talk, and before he actually chooses to invoke his Miranda
rights, he’s fair game for the police.
z
z The best empirical evidence suggests that roughly 80 percent of all
suspects waive their Miranda rights and agree to talk to the police. This
one of the main reasons why police rarely oppose Miranda these days.
The case created a safe harbor for them. They know that if they follow
the rules, they’ll get their chance to persuade the suspect to confess, at
least in most instances.
Criminal Law and Procedure
178
z
z Coercive interrogation techniques can lead to particularly unfortunate
results when suspects are young, mentally ill, or simply naïve and
suggestible. False confessions have shaken the criminal justice system
to its core. We used to feel confident in the assumption that people who
confess their own guilt are actually guilty. Now, we can’t be so sure.
Suggested Reading
<
< Watts v Indiana.
<
< Miranda v. Arizona.
<
< Colorado v. Connelly.
<
< Berghuis v. Thompkins.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Does Miranda help arrested suspects, by providing them
with knowledge of their rights, or does it hurt them,
by providing police with a greater opportunity to use
psychological tactics to obtain confessions?
Þ
Þ Should the government be allowed to force arrested
suspects-those suspected of terrorism, for example-to
answer incriminating questions, if the answers would
potentially save lives?
179
Lecture 12
PLEA BARGAINS, JURY
TRIALS, AND JUSTICE
T
his lecture examines two major features of the American system
of criminal justice: plea bargaining and trial by jury. In this
lecture, you’ll learn how plea bargains came to dominate criminal
prosecutions, and what that means for the administration of justice. You’ll
also learn about the jury system, including the scope of the constitutional
right to trial by jury, the requirements for selecting a jury, and the
controversial principle of jury nullification.
Criminal Law and Procedure
180
PLEA BARGAINING
z
z There is no evidence of plea bargaining in early American history.
The practice appears to have begun during the 1800s. Over time, our
legal system gradually abandoned the super-efficient summary trials
common during the colonial period. Trial procedures were modernized,
the rights of defendants came to the forefront, and legal representation
of criminal defendants became more common.
z
z The consequence of this trend toward modernization was that trials
became much lengthier and costlier. Today, however, 19 out of every 20
criminal cases are resolved through plea bargaining. Instead of having
a jury evaluate guilt or innocence, the defendant enters a plea of guilty
at a pretrial hearing, almost always in exchange for a plea bargain that
drops some of the charges, reduces the sentence, or both.
181
181
Lecture 12- Plea Bargains, Jury Trials, and Justice
z
z Lawyers and judges truly love plea bargaining. It’s incredibly efficient.
In addition, most lawyers and judges-including most prosecutorsthink that many of the criminal punishments enacted by legislatures are
too harsh. Indeed, there’s plenty of evidence to suggest that legislatures
sometimes deliberately enact overly harsh punishments, knowing full
well that prosecutors and judges will exercise their discretion and reach
more reasonable outcomes through plea bargaining.
z
z Public opinion, on the other hand, is strongly against plea bargaining.
Many people see the process as a way of “going easy” on the defendant,
and they don’t like it.
z
z Negotiating plea bargains and advising defendants when to accept
them are central to the role of the modern criminal defense attorney.
But these aren’t skills that are often taught in law school. Law schools
still spends most of their resources teaching lawyers how to litigate.
Plea bargaining is quite different-and most lawyers have to learn how
to do it through experience.
z
z An unfortunate side effect of plea bargaining is that almost all criminal
defense lawyers eventually come to believe that almost all of their
clients are guilty-simply because, in the end, almost all of them plead
guilty. Even when a defendant tells his defense lawyer in the most
passionate terms that he’s innocent of the crime, the defense lawyer
probably isn’t going to believe it. And the lawyer also isn’t likely to rush
out and investigate the innocence claim.
z
z Instead, the lawyer will probably assume that his client’s claim of
innocence is just an opening gambit, a calculated move to get a better
plea bargain. And every time the plea bargain gets offered and
the defendant takes it, this perception gets reinforced. This can make
life really difficult for the rare defendant who actually is innocent, as
he might not be able to get his own lawyer to take his claim seriously.
Criminal Law and Procedure
182
CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTIONS
z
z By the mid-1900s, trial judges, prosecutors, defense lawyers, and
defendants were all actively engaged in the practice of plea bargaining.
They were doing it mostly under the table, however, because there
were serious concerns about whether plea bargaining might be
unconstitutional. Was plea bargaining consistent with the requirements
of the Due Process Clause? Was it permissible for a prosecutor to
essentially threaten the defendant with harsher punishment if he didn’t
agree to waive his right to a jury trial? Or was this too coercive?
z
z These questions were taken up by the Supreme Court in two cases: Brady
v. United States and Bordenkircher v. Hayes. The defendant in Brady was
charged with a capital crime, and pled guilty to a lesser charge to avoid
the death penalty. Much later, Brady learned that the statute authorizing
the death penalty for his crime was unconstitutional-which meant he
didn’t really have anything to fear in the first place. Brady challenged
his guilty plea, arguing that it had been obtained involuntarily by the
threat of an unconstitutional death sentence.
z
z The Supreme Court disagreed. According to the Court, the information
upon which Brady based his decision was accurate at the time. As
for Brady’s claim that fear of the death penalty constituted coercion,
thus making his plea involuntary, the Court pointed out that plea
bargaining provides a “mutuality of advantage” that benefits both
prosecution and defense. The Court did note, however, that guilty pleas
must be voluntary, and that pleas induced by improper means might be
involuntary in some cases.
z
z Bordenkircher v. Hayes addressed the other side of the coin. The
defendant, Hayes, had been charged with forgery, and the prosecutor
offered him a tough deal: “Plead guilty, and I’ll recommend a sentence
of five years in prison. If you don’t plead guilty, I’ll charge you as
a repeat offender, and you’ll face life in prison.” Hayes refused to
plead guilty, and went to trial. He was convicted and sentenced to
183
183
Lecture 12- Plea Bargains, Jury Trials, and Justice
life. Hayes challenged the charge and the sentence as a violation of
due process, arguing that he had been punished for exercising his
constitutional rights.
z
z The Supreme Court disagreed. According to the Court, “To punish
a person because he has done what the law plainly allows him to do is
a due process violation of the most basic sort. But in the ‘give and take’ of
plea bargaining, there is no such element of punishment or retaliation,
so long as the accused is free to accept or reject the prosecution’s offer.”
JURY TRIALS
z
z With so many criminal cases resolved via plea bargaining, jury trials
have become much less common. Trials still matter, however, because
they are the benchmark against which plea bargains are measured. If
you don’t know what might happen at trial, you can’t know what kind
of plea bargain you should make.
z
z The Sixth Amendment sets forth a constitutional right to trial by
jury, one that now applies to both state and federal prosecutions.
That right does not extend to all criminal prosecutions, however. The
Supreme Court has held that the right to a jury trial doesn’t apply to
petty crimes-that is, misdemeanor cases where the defendant faces
a potential sentence of less than six months in jail.
Criminal Law and Procedure
184
z
z A defendant can waive the right to have a jury hear his case, if he so
chooses. He can request a bench trial-that is, a trial before a judge,
without a jury-and in most cases, the prosecution will agree. About
30 percent of all criminal trials are bench trials. But the jury trial is still
the gold standard.
z
z There are three important constitutional requirements for selecting
a jury. The first is that juries must be impartial. This means that every
person who serves on a jury must be able to perform the legal duties of
a juror-to consider the evidence fairly, and to reserve final judgment
until all the evidence has been introduced and all the arguments
concluded. It doesn’t mean that a juror must be a tabula rasa, knowing
nothing at all about the case. It simply means that the juror must be
able to set everything they know aside, and decide the case fairly.
z
z The second constitutional requirement for jury selection is that the
jurors must be selected from a fair cross-section of the community.
Prior to the 1960s, jurors often were limited to the most upstanding
members of the community. As the Supreme Court held, however,
juries are supposed to represent the entire community. Any jury
selection process that substantially excludes distinctive, identifiable
groups within the community is a violation of the Sixth Amendment.
z
z The third requirement for jury selection comes from the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and concerns the
discriminatory use of peremptory challenges. After prospective jurors
have been screened for impartiality and other legal barriers to jury
service, each side receives a small number of peremptory challenges,
which they can use to strike potential jurors for almost any reason.
According to the Supreme Court, however, peremptory challenges may
not be used to exclude prospective jurors based on race or gender.
z
z An important but lesser-known issue concerning jury trials is the
concept of jury nullification. This is the implicit power of a jury
to nullify an unjust criminal law by acquitting an obviously guilty
defendant. There is a long history of jury nullification in America, it’s
one of the greatest protections we have against government overreach.
185
185
Lecture 12- Plea Bargains, Jury Trials, and Justice
z
z Jury nullification is a power available to every jury. It’s a strange power,
one that courts don’t inform jurors about. But it’s very real. Whenever
a jury finds a defendant not guilty, the jurors can’t be asked, officially,
why they did it, and their decision to acquit can’t be appealed on any
grounds.
Suggested Reading
<
< Brady v. United States.
<
< Bordenkircher v. Hayes.
<
< Alford v. North Carolina.
<
< Batson v. Kentucky.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ How do you feel about plea bargaining, and why?
Þ
Þ Do you agree with the power of juries to nullify criminal
laws by acquitting clearly guilty defendants?
Civil Procedure
Peter J. Smith, J.D.
188
Professor Biography
Peter J. Smith, J.D.
Professor of Law
The George Washington
University Law School
Peter J. Smith is a Professor of Law at
The George Washington University
Law School in Washington DC. He
received his J.D. from Harvard Law
School, where he graduated magna
cum laude and received the Sears
Prize for highest academic performance, and he received his B.A. from Yale
University, where he graduated magna cum laude. Before joining the faculty
at GW Law, Professor Smith was an attorney at the U.S. Department of
Justice, where he represented the government in the U.S. Courts of Appeals.
At the Department of Justice, he defended the constitutionality of a number
of federal statutes, including the Family and Medical Leave Act and the
Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act, in cases that ultimately
were resolved by the Supreme Court. Before he worked at the Department
of Justice, Professor Smith clerked for Judge Phyllis A. Kravitch of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.
Professor Smith has twice received the Distinguished Faculty Service Award
for outstanding teaching at GW Law. He has published dozens of scholarly
articles and is the coauthor of a popular casebook on constitutional law
titled Constitutional Law: A Contemporary Approach. His research focuses
on constitutional law, constitutional interpretation, and civil procedure. ■
Course Scope
189
Civil Procedure
A
law school course in civil procedure is about the procedures that
courts follow to resolve disputes about substantive rights. The rules
of civil procedure are relevant in every single lawsuit, because the
same rules of procedure apply regardless of whether the suit is about torts,
contracts, or any other subject. Procedure is incredibly important; it can
have a huge effect on the outcome of a case, and on the lives of the litigants
while a trial is underway. You can learn everything there is to know about
tort law, or contract law, or any other area of substantive law. But if you don’t
know how to vindicate your interests or those of your client in court, then
your knowledge doesn’t have much practical value.
The rules of civil procedure are designed to create a fair and efficient system
for resolving legal controversies. But these goals are often in tension. Giving
the plaintiff a fair opportunity to access the information she needs to prove
her case, for example, might make the cost of litigating the suit prohibitive
for the defendant. In this course, we will explore these tensions and consider
how the rules seek to resolve them.
We’ll begin by considering just why exactly procedure is so important. Then
we’ll turn to the most important questions addressed by the rules of civil
procedure, progressing through the topics roughly in the order of an actual
lawsuit. We’ll begin by considering where a plaintiff can file a lawsuit.
When is federal court available, and when must the suit be filed in state
court? Then we’ll discuss the limits on a plaintiff’s ability to sue a defendant
far from the defendant’s home.
We’ll also consider the rules that govern what the plaintiff must allege in
order to survive a motion to dismiss the suit. If the plaintiff successfully
satisfies that standard, the parties then proceed to discovery, a pretrial
process during which the parties seek and obtain information to support
their cases. We’ll discuss what sorts of information you can seek from your
Course Scope
190
adversary-and what sorts of information he can seek from you. We’ll also
consider whether a plaintiff can assert multiple claims, or sue multiple
people, in a single lawsuit.
We’ll then turn to the mechanisms for proving and resolving a case. We’ll
consider the standards that govern a judge’s power to resolve a lawsuit
without a full trial or a decision from a jury, and when the parties are
entitled to a jury trial in the first place. We’ll also discuss how to decide
which body of law applies to lawsuits in federal court; when parties can
relitigate matters that have been the subject of prior lawsuits; and the rules
that govern appeals.
Most people don’t have strong intuitions about what the rules governing
these topics should be. But you’ll find that the questions we consider are
both important and fascinating-and that crafting rules of civil procedure
requires us to apply all of the legal reasoning skills that we are learning in
Law School for Everyone. ■
191
Lecture 1
PROCEDURAL RIGHTS
AND WHY THEY MATTER
P
rocedure can have a huge impact on the outcome of a case, as well as
on the lives of the litigants while a trial is underway. That’s why every
first-year law student takes a course in civil procedure. Extensive
knowledge of substantive law-tort law, for example, or contract lawhas little practical value if you don’t know how to vindicate your client’s
interests in court.
PROCEDURE VS. SUBSTANCE
z
z Civil procedure is about the procedures that courts follow in civil trials
to resolve disputes about substantive rights. It is therefore a relevant
topic in every single lawsuit. Regardless of the legal basis for a particular
dispute-contract law, for example, or tort law-the same procedural
rules will apply.
z
z Substantive law governs our behavior outside the courtroom.
Procedural rules, on the other hand, govern our behavior inside the
courtroom. Substantive law defines our rights with respect to other
people in our everyday lives. Procedure provides a structure for
enforcing those rights.
z
z Substantive law is a big part of our daily lives. Every time we get behind
the wheel of a car, or go outside to shovel snow from the sidewalk in
front of our house, or decide whether to look at a text message while
we’re driving, we’re thinking about the obligations we have to avoid
causing injuries to others.
Civil Procedure
192
z
z The same isn’t true for civil procedure. We just don’t have any real
occasion to think about procedural rules-about which court has
jurisdiction over a lawsuit, or when a judge can grant a motion for
summary judgment-unless we actually get injured, or unless someone
actually sues us claiming that we injured him.
z
z But that doesn’t make civil procedure any less important than other
courses in law school. And it doesn’t mean that the rules to govern these
sorts of things are arbitrary. Quite to the contrary, they’re designed to
create a fair and efficient system for resolving legal controversies.
Lecture 1- Procedural Rights and Why They Matter
193
WHY PROCEDURE MATTERS
z
z Two clauses in the U.S. Constitution-the Fifth Amendment, which
applies to the federal government, and the Fourteenth Amendment,
which applies to the states-explicitly seek to enshrine the principle
of procedural fairness. Both guarantee that the government can’t
deprive us of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. It’s not
enough to guarantee substantive rights, in other words; the process of
adjudicating those rights must also be fair.
z
z As a matter of constitutional law, procedure matters as much as
substantive law. Notice, however, that neither the Fifth Amendment nor
the Fourteenth Amendment explains what procedure you’re entitled to
when someone sues you. They simply restate the conclusion, providing
that the process that you’re entitled to is whatever process is due.
z
z The task of deciding whether a particular procedure is consistent with
due process is one that often falls to the justices of the U.S. Supreme
Court. Some of the most famous cases in the Court’s history, in fact,
have been about procedure rather than about substantive rights.
z
z Consider the case of Goldberg v. Kelly, decided by the U.S. Supreme
Court in 1970. It involved a claim that New York State didn’t provide
people an adequate hearing before terminating their welfare benefits.
At the time, an indigent person would apply for welfare, and the state
would decide whether he was entitled to it. If so, he would start receiving
welfare checks every month. If the state concluded that a recipient was
no longer entitled to welfare, it would just terminate the benefits.
z
z A group of welfare beneficiaries, and some whose benefits had
been terminated, filed suit, claiming that New York’s approach to
terminating benefits violated the Fourteenth Amendment’s Due
Process Clause. Shortly after they filed their suit, however, the state
changed its procedures. Under the new approach, a caseworker who
suspected that a person was no longer entitled to benefits would first
discuss it with the beneficiary.
Civil Procedure
194
z
z But the plaintiffs in the suit claimed that this procedure was also
inadequate. They said that they were entitled to a full hearing before the
state could terminate benefits. The fight was not about who should be
entitled to welfare-a substantive question-but about what procedures
were required before the state could terminate a person’s benefits.
z
z The plaintiffs weren’t seeking damages from the government for their
injuries. They weren’t even seeking the payment of welfare benefits.
Instead, they asked for an injunction. They wanted the court to order
the government to do something-specifically, to give them a hearing
before terminating benefits-that would make it less likely that they’d
lose their welfare benefits in the future. The plaintiffs clearly believed
in the value of procedure.
z
z The Supreme Court agreed with the welfare recipients that they
were entitled to a better hearing before the state could terminate
their benefits. The Court reasoned that the plaintiffs had previously
demonstrated their eligibility for welfare; that’s why they started to
receive it in the first place. Under New York’s welfare statute, they were
entitled receive it. This entitlement was essentially a form of property,
which was therefore subject to due process.
z
z The Court then explained what process was due. It said that welfare
recipients were entitled to notice of the state’s intention to terminate
benefits; a hearing with an impartial fact finder at which they could
present evidence both in person and through the submission of
documents; representation by a lawyer; and an opportunity to crossexamine witnesses.
z
z There’s a lot we could say about this conclusion. One on hand, it will
ensure that people who are actually entitled to receive welfare don’t
suddenly lose it because of an error by the state. That’s because the error
would likely come to light in the hearing, before the state is permitted
to stop sending welfare checks.
Lecture 1- Procedural Rights and Why They Matter
195
z
z On the other hand, the Court’s ruling will inevitably make it more
expensive for states to provide welfare. If the state believes that a person
is no longer entitled to benefits, it can’t just terminate the benefits;
instead, it has to keep paying him until after the conclusion of a hearing,
which could take a year or more to resolve. This might lead states to
provide lower benefits to everyone on welfare, or to increase eligibility
requirements, to make up the difference.
z
z For present purposes, it is enough to note that for the welfare recipients
in New York, fair procedure was at least as important as a generous
definition of who qualifies for welfare in the first place. As is often the
case, procedural protections are great if you’re the one facing harsh
consequences. The more extensive the process, however, the more time
consuming and expensive the resolution becomes.
Civil Procedure
196
ANALYZING PROCEDURE
z
z Consider Mathews v. Eldridge, a case that the Supreme Court decided
in 1976, six years after Goldberg v. Kelly. In Mathews, the Court
considered a challenge to the procedures the government made
available before it terminated a person’s disability benefits.
z
z Disability benefits are available, according to a federal statute, when
some physical or mental impairment prevents a person from engaging
in any substantial gainful activity for a considerable amount of time.
Sometimes a serious injury will prevent a person from working and so
entitle him to benefits. But two years later, if the injury has healed, the
person might cease to be entitled to continued receipt of the benefits.
Lecture 1- Procedural Rights and Why They Matter
197
z
z Under the rules that were challenged in Mathews, if the government
believed that the person was no longer entitled to benefits, it would
give him a chance to send in evidence about why he was still entitled to
receive benefits. If the government still believed that he was no longer
entitled to receive them, it would terminate the benefits. A full hearing
was available, but only after the benefits had been terminated.
z
z Unsurprisingly, the plaintiffs in the Mathews case relied heavily on
Goldberg, in which the Court had required a pretty extensive hearing
before the state could terminate benefits. But in Mathews, the Court
concluded that the government was not required to give a full hearing
before the termination of benefits; it was enough to give people a hearing
to contest the decision after the government had already terminated
benefits.
z
z Why was Mathews different from Goldberg? The Court said that in
Goldberg, it had effectively balanced the individual’s interest in the
uninterrupted receipt of welfare benefits against the state’s interest in
conserving resources. The loss of welfare benefits can be catastrophic,
because the person might not have any other means to pay for food
or shelter; as a consequence, the individual interest outweighed the
state’s interest.
z
z But the Court said that the individual interest was not as weighty in the
case of disability benefits. Those benefits, the Court said, are awarded
based on disability status, not based on financial need. That means that
their termination won’t necessarily be as traumatic. In addition, the
Court thought that having a full hearing up front wouldn’t be likely to
lead to more accurate conclusions.
z
z There’s plenty we could say about this conclusion, too. Even if disability
benefits aren’t awarded based on financial need, it’s still the case that
many people on disability rely on the benefits as their main or only
source of income. Losing benefits because of the state’s mistake, and
having to wait for a hearing to prove that it made a mistake, could
impose serious hardships.
Civil Procedure
198
z
z On the other hand, almost 10 million Americans receive disability
benefits, and the people who are on the rolls are constantly changing.
Given the numbers, it can take a year or more to get a hearing.
Permitting the government to terminate benefits only after a hearing,
even though the government has evidence that the recipient actually has
been holding down a job, could cost the taxpayers billions of dollars.
z
z Even though we’re talking about procedural rules, rather than
substantive rules, we still have to use all of the tools of legal reasoning
that we use when trying to resolve any other legal dispute. To answer
the question in the Mathews case, it isn’t enough to know what the
Court’s conclusion was in Goldberg; you need to know why the Court
in Goldberg reached the conclusion that it did. The same is true for any
other rule of civil procedure.
199
Suggested Reading
<
< Brennan, “Reason, Passion, and
‘The Progress of the Law.’”
<
< Clermont, Civil Procedure Stories.
<
< Fiss, “Reason in All Its Splendor.”
<
< Issacharoff, Civil Procedure.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ What should be the goals of the rules that govern
procedure in civil lawsuits?
Þ
Þ Is it possible to craft a system of rules that both guarantees
fairness for litigants and minimizes the costs of litigation
for the parties and the judicial system?
200
Lecture 2
SUBJECT MATTER
JURISDICTION
T
he power of a court to hear a case and render a judgment is known
as jurisdiction. There are two distinct types of jurisdiction-subjectmatter jurisdiction and personal jurisdiction-and it is important to
understand the differences between them. In this lecture, you will examine
the concept of subject-matter jurisdiction.
SUBJECT-MATTER JURISDICTION
z
z The United States doesn’t have just one court system; it has dozens.
Each state has its own system, as does the federal government. And
within each of these systems, there are both trial and appellate courts.
Trial courts are where plaintiffs file lawsuits, and where the parties’
claims are tried. Appellate courts review the decisions of trial courts,
usually to ensure that the trial courts properly applied the law.
z
z Most states have two layers of appellate courts. The first includes
intermediate courts of appeals, to which the party who lost in the trial
court has an automatic right of appeal. The second includes the state’s
court of last resort, often (but not always) called the supreme court,
which can usually choose which cases to hear.
z
z The federal court system has a similar structure. There are trial courts,
referred to as district courts; intermediate courts of appeals, referred
to as circuit courts; and the U.S. Supreme Court. The Supreme Court
can hear cases from the federal courts and, if they involve some issue of
federal law, from the state courts, too.
Lecture 2- Subject Matter Jurisdiction
201
z
z In both state and federal court systems, there are rules about what
types of cases can be filed in which courts. These rules govern the
courts’ subject-matter jurisdiction. As the name suggests, subjectmatter jurisdiction usually refers to a court’s authority to hear cases
concerning a particular subject matter.
z
z State rules concerning subject-matter jurisdiction usually are designed
to ensure that the judicial system functions efficiently. In some states,
for example, controversies regarding matters of child custody or divorce
are heard in specialized courts devoted exclusively to family law.
Civil Procedure
202
z
z Federal courts, for the most part, are not specialized. That doesn’t
mean, however that there’s no concept of subject-matter jurisdiction
in federal court, or that a federal trial court can hear just any type of
case. It’s actually quite the opposite; the subject-matter jurisdiction of
the federal courts is a sufficiently important matter that it’s addressed
in the U.S. Constitution itself.
z
z Article III of the Constitution places within the subject-matter
jurisdiction of the federal courts cases in which the United States or one
of the states is a party; cases involving ambassadors; and cases involving
admiralty law. Federal courts can also hear cases involving claims that
arise under federal law, as well as cases involving controversies between
citizens of different states, even if the claims they’re asserting are
governed by state law.
z
z Limits on federal subject-matter jurisdiction exist not to protect the
parties, but to preserve the authority of the state courts to decide
controversies that matter to their residents. Broad subject-matter
jurisdiction in federal court would inevitably deprive the state courts
of authority to decide some cases. As a consequence, parties can’t
consent-either expressly or by failing to object-to litigate a case in
federal court if there is no federal subject-matter jurisdiction.
Lecture 2- Subject Matter Jurisdiction
203
DIVERSITY JURISDICTION
z
z At the time the Constitution was drafted, most people in the United
States thought of themselves as citizens of a particular state. This
led the framers to worry that in a dispute between a Rhode Islander
and a Virginian, for example, the Rhode Islander would be the victim
of bias in a Virginia state court, and vice versa. The framers believed
that there would likely be less regional bias in the federal courts.
z
z It’s not clear that this type of local bias is still an issue today. The
world is much smaller than it used to be. But we haven’t amended the
underlying Constitutional provisions, which means that federal courts
are still permitted to hear cases involving controversies between parties
from different states. This is known as diversity jurisdiction.
z
z In the United States, there is no formal concept of state citizenship. We
do have national citizenship, of course. When we travel, we use U.S.
passports; we don’t use passports issued by individual states. And if
you live in one state temporarily, you don’t suddenly become a citizen
of that state.
z
z For purposes of diversity jurisdiction, a person’s citizenship is assessed
using what courts call the person’s domicile. Domicile is our true,
fixed, and permanent home, the place to which we plan to return when
we are away. Courts have concluded that a person changes his domicile
(and thus his citizenship for purposes of diversity jurisdiction) only by
both moving to a new place and formulating the intention to remain
there indefinitely.
z
z To establish subject-matter jurisdiction based on diversity, it’s not
enough merely to demonstrate that the plaintiff and defendant are
from different states. Congress has permitted the federal courts to
hear suits involving citizens of different states only when the amount
in controversy exceeds $75,000. The logic behind this requirement is
that the limited resources of the federal judiciary should not be spent
hearing cases that don’t involve an important question of federal law
and where there isn’t very much money at stake.
Civil Procedure
204
z
z The amount-in-controversy requirement is determined by reference to
the amount that the plaintiff seeks in her complaint (the document filed
to initiate a lawsuit). It’s possible under this test for plaintiffs to inflate
unquantifiable damages-like pain and suffering-in order to exceed
the $75,000 threshold. Unfortunately, there’s no other way to determine
the amount in controversy that would be fair and efficient.
z
z When a plaintiff seeks nonmonetary relief-an injunction, for
example-it’s not immediately obvious how much the relief is worth. To
begin with, we need to know from whose perspective the value should
be assessed. The typical approach is to look to the value of the relief to
the plaintiff. Sometimes, however, the court will apply a more flexible
analysis, looking at the value of the injunction from both parties’
viewpoints to determine whether in fact the case involves a substantial
claim for relief.
Lecture 2- Subject Matter Jurisdiction
205
FEDERAL-QUESTION JURISDICTION
z
z The majority of cases litigated in federal court are not based on diversity
of citizenship between parties. Instead, they are based on the authority
of federal courts to hear cases that present questions of federal law. This
is usually referred to as federal-question jurisdiction.
z
z Some cases involving federal questions are very complex and
require judicial expertise, such as antitrust and patent suits. Others,
like a suit seeking a remedy for a government official’s violation of the
Constitution, enable the courts to play an important role in our system
of checks and balances.
z
z In most cases involving federal-question jurisdiction, it’s not
particularly difficult to determine whether a particular claim arises
under federal law. The general rule is to examine whether federal law
creates the right that the plaintiff seeks to vindicate. For example,
if a federal statute says that you have the right not be discriminated
against in the workplace because of your gender, a suit to enforce that
right against your employer arises under federal law.
Civil Procedure
206
z
z Suppose that a plaintiff sues a local company that distributes meat to
supermarkets. The plaintiff alleges that she got sick from eating the
defendant’s contaminated meat. The plaintiff’s claim is an ordinary
tort claim arising under state law. But the plaintiff also alleges that the
defendant’s negligence is established by the fact that it failed to comply
with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s requirements about how to
handle meat.
z
z Another
plaintiff
might
sue the manufacturer of
a medical device, claiming
that the device is unreasonably
dangerous
and
injured
the
plaintiff. There’s no federal law
authorizing suits of this sort; instead,
the plaintiff’s claim is governed by state
tort law. But the manufacturer defends
against the plaintiff’s claim by asserting
that it’s immune from liability because the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved
the device as safe and effective.
z
z It’s usually not enough for federal subject-matter
jurisdiction for state law to incorporate or rely
on principles of federal law. In the example of the
tainted meat, the defendant’s failure to comply with
federal standards might be treated as conclusive
on the question of negligence, but only because
the applicable state’s tort law treats it that way.
The plaintiff’s claim itself is still just an ordinary,
state-law negligence claim. The fact that the court
will have to resolve a question of federal law to
answer it doesn’t convert the claim into one that
arises under federal law.
Lecture 2- Subject Matter Jurisdiction
207
z
z In general, there’s also no federal-question jurisdiction if the federal
issue enters the case merely because the defendant raises a defense that
relies on federal law. It is the plaintiff’s claim that must arise under
federal law. Accordingly, there would be no federal subject-matter
jurisdiction in the case of the device manufacturer who relies on FDA
approval as a defense; the plaintiff’s claim is still an ordinary state-law
tort suit for products liability.
Suggested Reading
<
< Flango, “Litigant Choice between State and
Federal Courts.”
<
< Friendly, “The Historic Basis of the Diversity
Jurisdiction.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should the parties to a lawsuit be permitted to confer
subject-matter jurisdiction on a court by agreeing to
litigate there?
Þ
Þ Is there still a need for diversity jurisdiction in federal
courts?
208
Lecture 3
JURISDICTION OVER
THE DEFENDANT
E
ven if a court has jurisdiction to hear a particular type of case, the
court can’t proceed to judgment unless it also has jurisdiction over the
parties to the case. This is what is known as personal jurisdictionthe power of a court to compel a person to appear to defend a suit or to face
an entry of judgment against him.
BACKGROUND
z
z The requirement that a court have personal jurisdiction over the
defendant reflects our concern over government power. It also arises
from our belief in the importance of procedural fairness to the
individual litigants, and particularly to the litigant who didn’t choose to
be involved in the suit in the first place.
z
z Being forced to defend a lawsuit is an expensive proposition.
Losing a lawsuit can be even more expensive. As a consequence, the
government-acting through its courts-is subject to limitations
regarding when and where it can force us to defend a suit and, if we
lose, to pay damages to the plaintiff.
z
z In the Anglo-American system, courts traditionally had power over
persons within their territorial jurisdiction. In the United States, this
meant that a state court had power over people or property present
within the state in which the court sat. For example, a Pennsylvania
court could assert authority over a Pennsylvania resident who lived in
the town where the court sat, if a lawsuit was filed against that person.
Lecture 3- Jurisdiction over the Defendant
209
z
z This is why we use the term “jurisdiction” to refer both to the court’s
power in general and to the area over which the court has authority.
The word jurisdiction comes from the Latin for “saying the law,” which
the court can do for anyone within its reach. The traditional corollary
of this view of judicial power was that a state court could not assert
control over people or property outside the state’s borders.
z
z Traditional notions regarding courts’ jurisdiction were generally
adequate in the early days of the United States. It wasn’t easy to travel far
from home in those days, and people tended to get goods and services
from local sources. Legal controversies usually involved parties from
the same place, which meant that questions of personal jurisdiction
weren’t very complicated.
z
z In fact, in the old days, a court’s power over a defendant often permitted
the court to order a sheriff to literally drag the defendant before the
court to answer the plaintiff’s claims. This was an exercise of brute
power by the courts. This system was soon replaced, however, by service
of process, which requires the plaintiff to notify the defendant that he’s
being sued and initially obtain jurisdiction over the defendant.
Civil Procedure
210
z
z The term “process” typically refers to the complaint-the plaintiff’s
statement of his grievance against the defendant-and a summons
ordering the defendant to appear in court. The term “service” refers to
the act of giving the complaint and the summons to the defendant.
z
z A properly served defendant has an obligation to appear in court if
he wants to avoid a judgment against him. In other words, the act of
serving process on the defendant establishes personal jurisdiction over
the defendant, at least as a preliminary matter.
PENNOYER V. NEFF
z
z Putting together the idea that a court had power over people only
within its jurisdiction, and that service of process is an assertion
of a court’s jurisdiction over the person who is served, we arrive at
the rules for personal jurisdiction in the 19th century. Back then,
deciding whether a court had personal jurisdiction over a defendant
was a relatively straightforward inquiry.
Lecture 3- Jurisdiction over the Defendant
211
z
z In Pennoyer v. Neff, a famous case decided in the late 19th century, the
Supreme Court held that in order to be subject to personal jurisdiction
in a particular court, a defendant who was not a resident of the state in
which the court was located (often referred to as the forum state) had
to be personally served with process within the borders of that state.
Under this approach, a state couldn’t assert its power over a nonresident
located beyond the state’s borders. The court could assert personal
jurisdiction over a resident, however, even if he happens to be away
from home when process is served.
z
z The rule established in Pennoyer reflected the view that a resident
of a state is always constructively present in the state-not actually
present, necessarily-and thus within the court’s jurisdictional reach.
The Pennoyer decision further suggested that a court could assert
personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant who voluntarily
appears to defend the suit.
HESS V. PAWLOSKI
z
z The rule established in Pennoyer was simple: In order to decide whether
there was personal jurisdiction over a particular defendant, a court
simply had to determine whether the defendant had been personally
served with process while in the state-or, if not, whether he
was a resident or had consented to the court’s jurisdiction.
z
z In the late 19th century, the Pennoyer rule rarely created significant
injustices. Most controversies were between residents of the same state,
and were litigated in that state. By the turn of the 20th century, however,
railroads spanned the nation, and automobiles were appearing in
increasing numbers on the nation’s roads. Conflicts between residents
of different states became more common.
z
z In this age of increasing mobility, state legislatures began to look for
ways to ensure that their residents could file lawsuits at home against
nonresidents who had caused injury while in the state. They read the
Civil Procedure
212
Pennoyer opinion carefully, and noticed a statement by the Court that
process could be served either on the defendant directly or on “someone
authorized to accept service for him.” This second possibility was the
subject of another famous case, Hess v. Pawloski.
z
z The Hess case involved a Massachusetts statute providing that any
nonresident who drove on the state’s roads constructively appointed
the state’s registrar of motor vehicles as his agent for the receipt of
service of process for suits arising out of car accidents in the state. The
Supreme Court upheld the statute, observing in its opinion that car
accidents were on the rise, and that Massachusetts had an interest in
providing a convenient forum for its residents for suits arising out of
such accidents.
z
z The idea that a nonresident driving through Massachusetts had
appointed the state registrar as his agent for service of process
was a complete fiction, of course-one that threatened to swallow
the entire Pennoyer rule. After Hess, what would stop a state from
saying that setting foot in the state for any purpose, however
fleetingly, constructively appointed an agent in the state to accept
service of process?
Lecture 3- Jurisdiction over the Defendant
213
z
z Is it more appropriate for the plaintiff or the defendant to bear the
extra costs associated with litigating a case far from home? Hess didn’t
require a thorough exploration of this question. Nevertheless, the
Court’s decision to permit suits against nonresident defendants not
served in the forum state suggested that the Court might be moving in
that direction. Later cases would make the shift more explicit.
Suggested Reading
<
< Perdue, “Sin, Scandal, and Substantive Due
Process.”
<
< Scalia, “The Rule of Law as a Law of Rules.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should a state court always be permitted to assert
jurisdiction over a person served with process while
present in the state where the court sits?
Þ
Þ Should a state court be permitted to assert jurisdiction
over any person who has previously engaged in activity in
the state where the court sits?
214
Lecture 4
A MODERN APPROACH TO
PERSONAL JURISDICTION
T
he traditional approach to personal jurisdiction, set forth in Pennoyer
v. Neff, is very different from the approach taken by the courts of
today. As you will see, the modern approach to personal jurisdiction
places important limits on the ability of a plaintiff to haul a defendant into
court far from the defendant’s home.
THE OLD RULE
z
z Personal jurisdiction is the power of a court to force a defendant
to defend a suit or face entry of judgment against him. Under the
traditional approach, a state court could establish personal jurisdiction
over a nonresident defendant only if the defendant was personally
served with process while actually in the state.
z
z The traditional approach seemed unfair to plaintiffs who had been
injured in their home states by defendants who then left those states.
If a defendant stayed away from the state were his actions took place,
the plaintiff wouldn’t be able to sue him at home; instead, the plaintiff
would have to bear the expense of traveling to the defendant’s home
state to sue him.
z
z Another problem with the traditional approach was that it was not
easily applied to corporate defendants. While it’s not difficult to tell
where a person is present, it’s not obvious where a corporation is present
at any given time. Corporations are institutions, but they act through
people. Is a corporation present in any state where any of its employees
happens to be?
Lecture 4- A Modern Approach to Personal Jurisdiction
215
z
z In the early 20th century, the problems with the traditional approach
grew in importance. Because of the growth of the railroads and
the development of the automobile, accidents between people from
different states became more common. Similarly, the rise of national
corporations meant an increase in the number of accidents caused by
out-of-state corporations.
THE MODERN STANDARD
z
z The Supreme Court announced the modern standard in the case of
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, decided in 1945. In International
Shoe, the Court concluded that a state court can assert personal
jurisdiction over a defendant not served in the state if the defendant has
“certain minimum contacts” with the state such that the maintenance
of the suit would not offend “traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.”
Civil Procedure
216
z
z The Court stated that a defendant who “exercises the privilege of
conducting activities within a state,” and thereby “enjoys the benefits
and protections of the laws of that state,” might face a corresponding
“obligation” to answer a suit in that state. And it recognized that the
limit on a state’s jurisdiction over a nonresident should be a function of
practical considerations, such as the respective burdens that litigation
will impose on the parties and witnesses, rather than any formal
and rigid test.
z
z The specifics of the International Shoe test seem to come from common
sense and intuitions about procedural fairness. But the Court made
clear that the test is required by the Constitution. Specifically, the Court
said that the test derives from the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, which says that no state shall deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law.
Lecture 4- A Modern Approach to Personal Jurisdiction
217
z
z Standards like the one adopted in International Shoe require courts to
balance various considerations, on a case-by-case basis, to determine
the appropriate outcome. This permits courts to recognize nuanced
differences between cases, and allows flexibility in the resolution of
those cases. Nuance isn’t always helpful, however. Nuanced questions
are more difficult to resolve, and outcomes less predictable.
z
z As standards go, the one set forth in International Shoe isn’t particularly
difficult to apply. It’s clear, for example, that driving negligently in the
forum state and causing injury there provides the necessary minimum
contacts. So does advertising and then selling a defective product to
a person in the forum state. If you do something in a state that causes
the plaintiff’s injuries, you’re likely to be subject to personal jurisdiction
in that state, even if you’re no longer present there.
THE HARD CASES
z
z No one fights about the basics of personal jurisdiction anymore; all
those questions have been decided. These days, personal jurisdiction
tends to come up only in outlier cases-more specifically, in cases that
concern the outer limits of a court’s jurisdictional reach.
z
z Consider the 1980 case World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson. The
plaintiffs bought a car from a dealership in New York. Not long after,
they drove the car out West and got into an accident in Oklahoma. The
car caught fire, and they suffered serious injuries. The plaintiffs filed
suit in Oklahoma state court against Audi and Volkswagen, which had
manufactured and imported the car; against the dealership where they
had bought the car; and against the car’s regional distributor.
z
z The New York dealership and the regional distributor challenged
personal jurisdiction. They argued that they didn’t do any business
in Oklahoma; they didn’t sell or distribute any cars there. Their
only connection to the state was the fact that someone to whom they
sold a car-the plaintiffs-had driven the car there and gotten into an
accident. Eventually, the issue came before the U.S. Supreme Court.
Civil Procedure
218
z
z The Court decided that the dealership and the regional distributor
weren’t subject to personal jurisdiction in Oklahoma because they
didn’t have the requisite connection to the state; they hadn’t taken any
purposeful action in Oklahoma from which they derived a benefit.
Their only connection to Oklahoma was based on unilateral action
by the plaintiffs. Any other conclusion would mean that the seller
of a product would be subject to personal jurisdiction in any state where
the purchaser decides to bring it.
z
z But what if the manufacturer of a product, or of a component of
a product, deposits it into the stream of commerce, fully aware that it
will be sold in the forum state. Would the manufacturer then be subject
to personal jurisdiction, assuming it had no other connection to the
state? The Supreme Court has twice considered this question, and both
times it has been unable to achieve a majority for one view.
Lecture 4- A Modern Approach to Personal Jurisdiction
219
z
z Some justices have concluded that mere awareness that your product
will be sold in the forum state is insufficient to subject you to jurisdiction
there; they have reasoned that the defendant needs to take some action
specifically directed at the state, such as advertising the product there,
to be subject to jurisdiction there. Other justices have concluded that
mere awareness that your product will be sold in a particular state
should be enough when the plaintiff buys it and suffers injury there.
z
z Under the traditional approach of Pennoyer v. Neff, not only was
personal service of process on the defendant in the forum state
sufficient for personal jurisdiction, it was typically the only possible
basis for personal jurisdiction. Under the modern approach, however,
the defendant is subject to personal jurisdiction in the forum state when
he has a sufficient connection with the state such that the maintenance
of the suit there would not offend traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice. But what about personal service on a defendant who
is present in the forum state? Is that method still valid?
z
z The Supreme Court addressed this issue in 1990, in the case Burnham
v. Superior Court. In Burnham, the Court unanimously decided that the
defendant was subject to personal jurisdiction in the forum state based
solely on the fact that he was served with process there, even though
he didn’t otherwise have the requisite minimum contacts with the
state. But the justices disagreed about why exactly personal jurisdiction
was available.
z
z Four justices in Burnham reasoned that because personal service of
process in the state traditionally was sufficient to establish jurisdiction,
it by definition is consistent with traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice. Another four justices disagreed, arguing that just
because something traditionally was considered fair doesn’t mean that
it’s necessarily fair today. This latter group argued that the Court should
consider contemporary notions of fair play and substantial justice, not
merely those in place at the time International Shoe was decided. As for
the ninth justice, he agreed that the court had personal jurisdiction but
was reluctant to articulate a broad rule.
Civil Procedure
220
z
z If nothing else, we can be confident that the world will continue to
change, putting more pressure on the doctrine of personal jurisdiction.
For example, should the creator of a website be subject to personal
jurisdiction in any state where a user can access the site-which is to
say, in every state? Courts are just beginning to grapple with these
types of questions.
Suggested Reading
<
< Adams, “World-Wide Volkswagen v. Woodson.”
<
< Maltz, “Unraveling the Conundrum of the Law of
Personal Jurisdiction.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ How should the courts reconcile the plaintiff’s desire
for a convenient forum with the defendant’s interest in
avoiding costly litigation?
Þ
Þ Should the Constitution’s meaning evolve to reflect
changes in the world?
221
Lecture 5
THE ROLE OF PLEADINGS
P
leading is the process by which the parties inform each other and the
court of their allegations, claims, and defenses against one another. It’s
the first step in the pretrial process, and it begins with the complaintthe plaintiff’s statement of grievance and demand for relief. The rules of
pleading can make or break a suit; as a consequence, they have a powerful
impact on every single case litigated in the United States.
THE FUNCTIONS OF PLEADING
z
z In the old days, the rules of pleading were complicated, technical, and
unforgiving. There was often a lengthy back-and-forth between the
parties, who filed dueling papers asserting claims, raising defenses, and
responding to the other party’s assertions. In the modern era, pleading
systems are more straightforward. Most cases involve just two filings:
the plaintiff’s complaint and the defendant’s answer.
Civil Procedure
222
z
z The core function of pleading is to notify the defendant about the
pendency of the suit and the nature of the plaintiff’s claims. But this
is not pleading’s only possible function. The pleadings may also reveal
facts that the parties believe entitle them to relief or, conversely, enable
them to defeat the other party’s claims.
z
z Pleadings may also narrow the issues that the court will have to
resolve in order to rule on the parties’ claims. And both the pleadings
themselves and the rules on how specific they must be can be used to
weed out frivolous claims at the outset, thus conserving the court’s
resources and protecting the defending party from harassing litigation.
z
z The rules of a system of pleading reflect which of the functions
of pleading the system is designed to serve. Each function seems
like a desirable objective. But it turns out that the more functions we
assign to the pleading system, the more problems we create.
THE HISTORY OF PLEADING
z
z Two hundred years ago, pleading was designed in large part to narrow
the issues for trial. But narrowing the issues required the complaint
to include lots of details. It also tended to require the parties to go
back and forth-making allegations, getting the adversary’s response,
responding to the adversary’s allegations, and so on.
z
z Because the traditional approach to pleading focused on narrowing the
issues for trial, it also required lots of attention to the particular legal
requirements for the claims that the plaintiff was asserting. To figure
out which issues were in controversy, it was necessary to consider which
issues were implicated by the plaintiff’s claims.
z
z To make matters even more complicated, the system tended to require
lawyers to use specific, technical, legalistic turns of phrase to describe
all of this. When lawyers-or litigants who weren’t represented
by lawyers-deviated from convention, it could doom otherwise
valid claims.
Lecture 5- The Role of Pleadings
223
z
z Many states changed their pleading systems in the 19th century. The
revised approach they adopted was to use pleading to reveal the facts on
which the parties planned to rely at trial. After all, to win a lawsuit, you
have to be able to demonstrate that the things that you allege happened
actually happened.
z
z Under the revised system, it wasn’t clear exactly what a plaintiff was
obligated to say in the complaint. Pleading rules are supposed to
apply to all lawsuits, and it’s difficult to create generally applicable
rules about how specific factual allegations need to be. Moreover, the
evidence to support the facts the plaintiff needs to prove might not be
readily available.
z
z Both the traditional and revised approaches risked bouncing from
court plaintiffs who actually had meritorious claims. We certainly
don’t want a system in which plaintiffs who should win get their suits
dismissed because their lawyers didn’t use the right turn of phrase in
the complaint, or because the defendant kept the necessary evidence
locked away in her files. We want to make sure that those plaintiffs
make it past the pleading stage.
Civil Procedure
224
MODERN DEVELOPMENTS
z
z In the 20th century, most jurisdictions in the United States changed their
rules again. This time, instead of replacing one set of complicated rules
with another, equally complex set, they changed the rules to simplify
and deemphasize pleading. The new approach, which is essentially the
one still in effect today, doesn’t rely on pleading to reveal the facts or to
narrow the issues.
z
z It’s still important for parties to obtain and reveal the facts that they
plan to rely on at trial. In the modern system of pleading, the parties
do this during a process called discovery, which allows the parties to
seek evidence from each other and from third parties. It’s also still
important to narrow the issues for trial. But that can now be done after
discovery, when the parties have figured out what matters are actually
in controversy.
Lecture 5- The Role of Pleadings
225
z
z In federal courts today, the rules say that a complaint needs to contain
only “a short and plain statement of the claim demonstrating that the
pleader is entitled to relief.” If all we’re concerned about is making sure
the defendant learns that he’s being sued and the basic reason why, then
that should be enough.
z
z This approach does a much better job than the old systems at making
sure that potentially meritorious cases get to proceed to discovery. After
all, the lower the standard for pleading, the easier it is to satisfy; and if
it is easier to satisfy, fewer complaints will be dismissed for failing to
satisfy it. If the plaintiff has a genuinely valid claim, it’s not likely to be
dismissed without seeing the inside of a courtroom.
z
z But what about the goal of weeding out frivolous claims? If you get sued,
but the claim is entirely meritless, you don’t want it to be necessary
for you to spend lots of money to win the suit; you want the suit to
get dismissed as quickly as possible. A system in which a plaintiff can
file a lawsuit that has no hope of winning at trial can nevertheless
pressure the defendant to settle the suit to avoid the steep costs of
pretrial discovery.
z
z During discovery, a party can force his adversary to turn over
information relevant to the suit. This can be extremely timeconsuming, not to mention expensive-it might involve paying lawyers
to search through thousands or even millions of documents to find
ones that are relevant, or to fly to another city to participate in the
deposition of a witness.
z
z These two goals-ensuring that meritorious suits survive, while
weeding out frivolous ones-are fundamentally incompatible. The
more lenient we make the pleading standards to ensure that potentially
meritorious suits see the inside of the courtroom, the more frivolous
suits we’ll allow to reach discovery. Conversely, the more we toughen
the pleading standards to weed out frivolous suits, the more meritorious
suits we’ll inevitably screen out.
Civil Procedure
226
FACTUAL SPECIFICITY
z
z Courts generally assume that the allegations in a complaint are true
when deciding whether to dismiss it. If this weren’t the case, we would
be “trying” the case based on the complaint, without the procedural
protections that we expect from a trial. The court can’t determine if
the allegations are true until after there’s been a trial, or at least an
opportunity to engage in some amount of discovery.
z
z One way to approach this problem is to think about the types of
complaints that ought to be dismissed at the beginning of a lawsuit. One
such complaint might contain a detailed recital of facts, but assert facts
that don’t give rise to a cognizable claim. Another might
seek to recover for
a legally cognizable
claim, but fail to
provide sufficient
detail in the
allegations.
Lecture 5- The Role of Pleadings
227
z
z In a case called Ashcroft v. Iqbal,
the Supreme Court held that the
mere “formulaic recitation of the
elements” of a claim in a plaintiff’s
complaint was not enough for it
to survive a motion to dismiss.
With its decision in the Iqbal
case, the Supreme Court appears
to have established a new standard
for evaluating complaints-one that
does not automatically assume that all
of a plaintiff’s factual allegations are true.
z
z The standard announced in Iqbal is one that now applies to all
complaints. Consequently, when a judge is deciding whether to
dismiss a complaint at the beginning of a lawsuit, she has to decide
whether the factual allegations are sufficiently plausible to warrant
proceeding with the case.
z
z Of course, the only way to determine whether factual allegations
in a complaint are plausible is to evaluate the merits of the case. The
judge needs to ask whether the things that the plaintiff said happened
could actually have happened. And at the pleading stage, the judge has
to make this determination before the parties have had any opportunity
to discover evidence and build their cases.
z
z It’s basically impossible to choose a pleading standard that ensures
both that all meritorious cases advance to discovery and that no
frivolous claims make it that far. The traditional pleading standard
accomplished the latter goal well. It was then replaced by a revised
standard that served the former goal well. After Iqbal, we seem to be
moving back to a standard that is more concerned with screening out
frivolous claims.
Civil Procedure
228
z
z Whether this shift is a good thing or a bad thing depends on whether
we view the rules through the eyes of prospective plaintiffs or
prospective defendants. Plaintiffs want the opportunity to substantiate
and prove their cases, which requires them to get past the pleading
stage. Defendants want to avoid the costs of defending suits that they
believe they should win. This is a constant tension in formulating rules
of civil procedure.
Suggested Reading
<
< Bone, “Plausibility Pleading Revisited and Revised.”
<
< Reinert, “Measuring the Impact of Plausibility
Pleading.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should a plaintiff be permitted to reach the potentially
costly discovery phase of a lawsuit just by making
conclusory allegations in a complaint?
Þ
Þ How can we tell whether a plaintiff’s claims are plausible
at the outset of a suit, before the parties have had an
opportunity to discover information to support their
claims and defenses?
229
Lecture 6
UNDERSTANDING
COMPLEX LITIGATION
M
odern lawsuits sometimes involve multiple plaintiffs suing multiple
defendants on multiple claims. In law school, this is known as
complex litigation. This lecture examines the rules that apply to
complex litigation, including those governing joinder-the mechanism by
which multiple parties and claims may be joined together in a single suitand the special type of multiparty suit known as the class action.
Civil Procedure
230
JOINDER OF CLAIMS
z
z The majority approach today in the United States is to permit any party
asserting a claim against another party to join as many claims as she
has against that party. Under that approach, the party doesn’t have to
join multiple claims together in one suit, but she may. And it doesn’t
matter if the claims are related to each other; she can assert as many
claims as she has against an opposing party in one suit, even if they
have nothing to do with one another. The idea is that one lawsuit is
more efficient than two, both for the parties and for the court.
z
z If the claims are not related, however, it’s less clear that it’s more efficient
to join them together in one suit. To begin with, there may not be any
overlap in the evidence. There may even be a chance that jurors will get
confused about which evidence is relevant to which claim. Jurors may
also allow evidence from one claim to prejudice their views about the
proper resolution of the other claim.
z
z Nevertheless, it is still more efficient for the plaintiff to join unrelated
claims than to bring separate suits. Process must be served only
once, for example. The court will have to have only one hearing
about personal jurisdiction or other threshold issues, and will have to
empanel only one jury.
z
z If there were a relatedness requirement, we’d waste energy litigating
whether claims are sufficiently related to fit within the rule. If the
claims are so different that we’re worried about juror confusion or bias,
we can always have the judge split the claims up for trial.
z
z A party is allowed to join together all claims she has against an opposing
party, but she is not required to do so. Under a doctrine called claim
preclusion, however, a plaintiff must bring all related claims together,
or she loses the right to assert them later. So even though a party isn’t
required to assert unrelated claims together in one suit, she does have
to assert all related claims, or forever hold her peace.
Lecture 6- Understanding Complex Litigation
231
z
z While the rules only require parties to assert related claims together
in one suit, in practice parties tend to join together all claims that
they have, even if they’re not related. There are strong incentives for
plaintiffs to do so. First, the cost of maintaining one suit is generally
less than maintaining multiple suits. Second, multiple claims against
the defendant can make the defendant look bad. Third, statutes
of limitations-laws that require suits to be filed within a certain
period of time-generally prevent plaintiffs from waiting a long time to
assert their claims.
JOINDER OF PARTIES
z
z In the old days, the rule was that a lawsuit could involve only one plaintiff
suing one defendant. But that’s different now. Under the majority
approach today, multiple plaintiffs can sue together if the claims that
they’re asserting are related to each other. Similarly, a plaintiff can sue
multiple defendants if the claims that she’s asserting against them are
related.
z
z But lawsuits can get even more complicated than merely having multiple
plaintiffs sue multiple defendants on multiple claims. There are also
counterclaims, which can be brought against opposing parties; crossclaims, which can be brought against co-parties; and impleaders, also
known as third-party claims, which can be brought against someone
not already a party to the suit.
Civil Procedure
232
z
z This doesn’t mean, however, that any party can assert any claim against
anyone else in a lawsuit. With respect to counterclaims, the usual
approach is that a party can always assert a counterclaim against an
opposing party. In most jurisdictions, in fact, a party must assert any
counterclaims related to the opposing party’s original claim, or risk
forfeiting the counterclaim altogether.
z
z With respect to cross-claims, the general rule is that a party may
assert a cross-claim if it’s related to the original claim or a counterclaim,
but is not required to do so. The logic behind this distinction is that in
most cases, we don’t want to force parties to become adversaries if we
don’t have to.
z
z A party may file an impleader, or third-party claim, only if she is
asserting that the defendant on that claim will be required to reimburse
her if she is found liable on another claim in the suit. She can’t simply
take the opportunity, now that she’s being sued, to resolve any disputes
she has against any other random person.
Lecture 6- Understanding Complex Litigation
233
CLASS ACTIONS
z
z What if there are so many potential parties that we couldn’t fit them
all in the courtroom, or easily resolve all their claims in one suit? One
possibility is simply to let the various plaintiffs bring separate lawsuits.
But there are two potential problems with this solution:
�If the lawsuits would all involve similar facts and similar claims,
it might be costly for the courts-and the defendant-to have to
litigate all of them.
�If the plaintiffs can’t join together in a single lawsuit, they might
have less incentive to go to court in the first place, thus leaving their
injuries unredressed.
z
z The law’s solution to these problems is the class action, a suit by
a representative plaintiff on behalf of a class of similarly situated
persons. The plaintiffs in the class typically don’t participate in the suit,
leaving that to the representative. And we don’t have to worry about
inconsistent judgments; the result of the suit by the representative
will be binding not only on the defendant, but also on all the absent
class members.
z
z Our basic commitment to due process generally means that each
litigant should get an opportunity to resolve her claims in court. And
so, the general rule is that a person can’t be bound by a lawsuit brought
by another person, even if that person asserted similar claims. Class
actions are an exception to this rule.
z
z When a court resolves a class action, all people who were part of the
class are bound by the judgment, even if most of them didn’t participate
in any way in the suit. Courts make this exception for class actions
because class actions promote efficiency, and because they ensure
that justice is done when individual litigation would not be costeffective or practical.
Civil Procedure
234
z
z But it can’t be the case that any random person can file a suit purporting
to be on behalf of other people, and thereby resolve their legal rights.
So how do we guarantee that class action litigation serves the interests
that it’s designed to advance without prejudicing the rights of absent
class members?
z
z In a famous case called Hansberry v. Lee, the Supreme Court held
that a class action can bind absent class members only if they are
adequately represented by the class representatives. To evaluate adequate
representation, a court must consider whether the representative’s
interests and those of the absent class members are aligned.
z
z If the interests of the class representative and the absent class members
diverge, the court will go on to consider whether those differences are
enough to make the representation inadequate. If the representation is
inadequate, the class members
who
did
not
actively
participate in the lawsuit
won’t be bound by
the judgment in
the suit.
Lecture 6- Understanding Complex Litigation
235
z
z Critics of class actions have described the practice as a weapon to coerce
settlements from large companies, who would rather pay to have the
case go away than face years of expensive litigation. But the class action
is also an important device for ensuring that there is a meaningful
remedy for wrongdoing that harms many people.
Suggested Reading
<
< Clermont, Civil Procedure Stories.
<
< Freer, “Duplicative Litigation.”
<
< Kane, “Original Sin and the Transaction in Federal
Civil Procedure.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should parties always get to choose how many claims to
assert against an opposing party, or how many parties to
assert their claims against?
Þ
Þ Is it unfair to absent parties to adjudicate their rights in
class action lawsuits?
236
Lecture 7
THE USE AND ABUSE
OF DISCOVERY
D
iscovery is the process by which parties seek evidence before trial to
support their claims and defenses. As many young lawyers quickly
learn, the mechanics of discovery are quite dry and technical.
Nevertheless, the rules of discovery raise fundamental questions about how
we reconcile an adversarial system of litigation with the goal of deciding
cases based on the merits.
DISCOVERY BASICS
z
z In many European jurisdictions, it’s the judge who actively investigates
the case. The judge is the one who seeks evidence and questions
witnesses in an attempt to determine the truth. This type of procedure
is referred to broadly as an inquisitorial system of justice.
z
z In the Anglo-American model, by contrast, it is the opposing parties
who gather and present evidence, and who formulate the legal
arguments. This is what’s called an adversarial system. In an adversarial
system, the judge is largely a passive referee, ruling on disputes as they
arise between the parties.
z
z The adversarial system is based on the premise that the parties, who
have the most to gain or lose in the outcome of the suit, have the best
incentive to discover evidence and formulate arguments that help their
cases. In other words, the system depends on competition between selfinterested litigants to reveal all the information necessary to resolve the
case correctly.
Lecture 7- The Use and Abuse of Discovery
237
z
z In an extreme version of an adversarial system, we can imagine that the
parties wouldn’t share any information at all with each other. To the
contrary, they would have every incentive to keep their best evidence
hidden until trial. That way that their opponents wouldn’t be able to
adequately prepare to rebut it.
z
z Something seems unfair, however, about deciding cases based on
who has access to information. We want cases to be decided based on
the truth, even if the truth happens to be hidden in the plaintiff’s or
defendant’s files. Left to their own devices, however, parties often have
no incentive to disclose information to their adversaries-especially
information that might be damaging to their own cases.
z
z This is where discovery comes in. The discovery process allows
access to certain types of information for both parties. Discovery
has been a part of the American legal system for many years, but the
standards governing the process have evolved over time.
Civil Procedure
238
SCOPE OF DISCOVERY
z
z Defining the types of information that a party may obtain from others
in preparing for trial raises a fundamental tension in the law of civil
procedure: We want cases to be decided on their merits, not based
on who has better access to information. At the same time, we don’t
want to undermine the incentives at work in our adversarial system.
The former goal argues in favor of a broad scope of discovery; the latter
argues in favor of a narrow scope.
z
z Because of evolving views of how to balance these competing goals,
the scope of discovery today is much broader than it used to be. In
most American jurisdictions today, parties can seek any nonprivileged
matter that is relevant to any party’s claim or defense. This is true
regardless of who has the burden of proving the claim or defense to
which the matter is relevant.
Lecture 7- The Use and Abuse of Discovery
239
z
z In most cases, it isn’t difficult to determine whether the information
sought is relevant. Consider, for example, the general rule
that a plaintiff can’t obtain information during discovery about the
defendant’s financial resources and ability to pay a future judgment.
Such information simply isn’t relevant; the defendant’s wealth has
nothing to do with the plaintiff’s entitlement to recover or the amount
he should be entitled to recover.
z
z There are times, however, where the relevance requirement cuts the
other way. When a plaintiff in good faith seeks punitive damageswhich are designed to punish and deter outrageous conduct-she might
be able to seek information about the defendant’s financial resources.
For punitive damages to have a meaningful deterrent effect, you need
to know how much money the defendant has. The information is now
relevant to the plaintiff’s case.
z
z A broad scope of discovery helps ensure that cases are resolved based
on the merits, not on the parties’ comparative access to information.
But a broad scope can also be used as a tool for parties to impose costs
on their opponents, who might be inclined to settle even those cases
they would otherwise win.
z
z Defendants can also use discovery strategically, as a weapon to wear
down an asset-challenged plaintiff. Defense attorneys often try to drag
out discovery-sending sweeping document requests, for instance, and
arranging for lengthy depositions of as many witnesses as they can
find. At some point, the best the plaintiff can hope for will be to settle
the suit for some fraction of what he might get after a completed trial.
z
z When discovery is used to impose costs on an adversary, it’s less
obvious that it will promote the fair resolution of a suit based solely on
the merits. But how do we identify those cases? Any discovery request
will impose at least some costs on the responding party, even ones
that seek obviously relevant information. Recognizing this problem,
the rules governing discovery now require that the information be
proportional to the needs of the case.
Civil Procedure
240
PRIVILEGES IN DISCOVERY
z
z A privilege is a right to refuse to disclose information that the person
otherwise would have an obligation to provide. You’ve probably heard
of some privileges, like the doctor-patient privilege and the attorneyclient privilege.
z
z Courts protect communications subject to privileges to advance goals
unrelated to litigation. The doctor-patient privilege, which protects
doctors from having to disclose things that their patients tell them, is
designed to ensure that doctors have all the information that they need
to make wise treatment decisions.
z
z The attorney-client privilege, which protects lawyers from having to
disclose things that their clients tell them, ensures that the client feels
comfortable giving his attorney all the relevant information, which
makes it easier for the attorney to represent the client effectively.
During discovery, a party can’t ask the opposing party to disclose what
he told his attorney in the course of seeking legal advice.
z
z But what about material that’s not protected by the attorney-client
privilege-perhaps because it didn’t involve a communication between
the client and the lawyer-but that the lawyer prepared in anticipation
of litigation? This is known as work product, and it typically is shielded
from discovery. This helps ensures that lawyers have adequate incentive
to prepare their cases for trial.
z
z There are some instances, however, when attorney work product will
be subject to discovery. This might be the case, for example, when
an eyewitness interviewed by an attorney for one party dies before
opposing counsel has the opportunity to do the same. Depending on
the circumstances, the interest in equal access to information necessary
to the resolution of the case might outweigh the interest in preserving
incentives in litigation.
Lecture 7- The Use and Abuse of Discovery
241
z
z The general rule is that attorney work product is discoverable,
notwithstanding the fact that an attorney prepared it in anticipation of
litigation, if the party seeking discovery can demonstrate both that it
has a substantial need for the materials and that it would face undue
hardship if the materials were not discoverable.
z
z The question raised by discovery of work product is the same
fundamental question raised by the scope of discovery in the first place:
How do we reconcile the adversarial system with the goal of resolving
all cases based on their true merits? There’s no perfect answer to this
question in the abstract, but the rules we’ve discussed are designed to
find a sensible and workable balance.
Suggested Reading
<
< Clermont, Civil Procedure Stories.
<
< Easterbrook, “Discovery as Abuse.”
<
< Mullenix, “The Pervasive Myth of Pervasive
Discovery Abuse.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ How do we balance a party’s need for access to
information against the costs that discovery can impose
on opposing parties?
Þ
Þ Is it fair to permit lawyers to shield information from
disclosure when they have learned it from their clients or
in the course of investigating a case?
242
Lecture 8
DECIDING A CASE
BEFORE THE TRIAL ENDS
O
nly a tiny percentage of civil lawsuits in the United States
involve a complete trial, with all its attendant procedural
protections. Some suits are dismissed at the outset of litigation.
Others settle before or during trial. But a significant number are resolved
by the presiding judge, either before or during the trial. The mechanisms
available to judges for this purpose are examined in this lecture.
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
z
z In most cases, once discovery is complete, at least one of the parties
files a motion asking the court to grant judgment in its favor. This is
called a motion for summary judgment.
z
z A motion for summary judgment urges that, in light of the facts
discovered and the law that applies to the parties’ claims, there’s only
one legally acceptable resolution of the suit. Summary judgment
is a mechanism for resolving a dispute without a trial.
z
z It’s often difficult for a judge to decide whether there’s only one legally
defensible outcome. Granting summary judgment deprives the losing
party of the opportunity to have the fact finder decide the merits of the
suit based on the evidence as it would be presented in a full trial. This
is potentially problematic, not least of all because it deprives the losing
party of the opportunity to have its evidence heard by a jury.
Lecture 8- Deciding a Case before the Trial Ends
243
z
z To grant summary judgment, a court must conclude that there is “no
genuine dispute as to any material fact” and that the party who filed
the motion “is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” In applying this
standard, the court is able to consider only the facts as presented by
the parties.
z
z In a suit arising out of a car accident, for example, if the plaintiff offers
eyewitness testimony that the defendant was speeding, the defendant
might respond with competing eyewitness testimony suggesting
that he wasn’t speeding. In such a case, summary judgment would
be inappropriate; there is a genuine dispute over a fact that must be
resolved in order to resolve the case.
Civil Procedure
244
REVIEWING THE EVIDENCE
z
z In a complete trial, a jury can base its assessment of the facts on whose
witnesses it believed more: those of the defendant or those of the
plaintiff. A judge ruling on summary judgment, however, is limited to
reading the witnesses’ sworn statements. He can’t assess the credibility
of the witnesses, because he can’t see them.
z
z Courts reviewing evidence presented at the summary judgment stage
view the evidence in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party.
This is the party that doesn’t want summary judgment to be grantedwho instead wants a chance at a trial. For purposes of their decision,
judges assume that the testimony that supports that party is true, and
that all inferences that are sensibly drawn from it are also true.
z
z If a plaintiff moves for summary judgment, there’s only one way for
her to support the motion if she wants to win: She has to offer enough
evidence to show that she’d be certain to win, and the evidence has
to be enough even when considered alongside any evidence that the
defendant, in opposing the motion, offers to try to show that the facts
are actually disputed.
z
z A defendant who moves for summary judgment can follow the same
approach, offering evidence so overwhelming that victory at trial would
be assured. But he can also oppose the motion by offering no evidence
at all. Instead, he can simply point out that the plaintiff doesn’t have
enough evidence to meet her burden of persuasion at trial. As a result,
it’s generally easier for defendants to win on summary judgment than it
is for plaintiffs.
z
z Summary judgment is not always granted, of course. In some cases,
neither party moves for summary judgment. In others, the facts are
clearly in dispute, and both sides have evidence to support their factual
assertions. When summary judgment is denied, the case is set for trial.
Lecture 8- Deciding a Case before the Trial Ends
245
JUDGMENT AS A MATTER OF LAW
z
z The denial of a motion for summary judgment doesn’t guarantee that
the issues will be decided by a jury. A judge can still dispose of a case
during trial-or at the conclusion of the trial-and thereby prevent
the jury from deciding the case. Courts do so by granting motions for
judgment as a matter of law.
z
z In the old days (and still today, in some states) judgment as a matter of
law was referred to as a directed verdict. As the name implies, a directed
verdict required a conclusion by the judge that there would be only one
legally defensible outcome before a jury, and thus that there’s no need to
have the jury rule on the case.
z
z Under the modern standard, a court can grant judgment as a matter of
law if “a reasonable jury would not have a legally sufficient evidentiary
basis to find for” a party who’s had an opportunity to introduce
evidence about the relevant issues. This is effectively the same standard
that we apply to motions for summary judgment.
Civil Procedure
246
z
z If the same standard applies to motions for summary judgment and
motions for judgment as a matter of law, then how could a court deny
the former but then grant the latter? The answer lies mainly in the
differing records that a court considers when ruling on the motions.
z
z When a court rules on a motion for summary judgment, it bases its
decision on more limited evidence: documents obtained during
discovery, deposition transcripts, sworn statements, and so forth. In
contrast, a court deciding whether to grant a motion for judgment
as a matter of law must consider the evidence actually produced at trial.
z
z Sometimes the evidence turns out to be more compelling when offered
at trial. Sometimes a party, for tactical or other reasons, doesn’t offer
at trial everything that he offered at the summary judgment stage. The
evidence may differ in other meaningful ways, such as when a witness
at trial departs from the statement he provided in an affidavit or the
testimony he gave in a deposition.
z
z In other words, although the standards for summary judgment and
judgment as a matter of law are essentially the same, there may be
differences in the evidentiary bases for the motions. It makes sense
that sometimes a court would deny summary judgment but then
grant judgment as a matter of law. Everything can look different after
evidence has been introduced in a trial.
z
z How can a court decide whether a “reasonable jury” could rule in
favor of either party, when granting the motion will prevent a jury
from actually deciding the issue? There are certainly cases where
the application of the standard is uncontroversial-where evidence
is undisputed, for example. But what about when the evidence is
in dispute?
z
z To answer this question, it’s important to note that the concept of the
“reasonable jury” is not simply a function of what an ordinary, rational,
reasonable person could decide. Rather, it is a normative standard for
what a party should have to offer in order to prevail in a trial.
Lecture 8- Deciding a Case before the Trial Ends
247
z
z Under this standard, it’s not enough to offer evidence that could
lead a reasonable person to conclude that you’re more likely right
than wrong. Instead, the party with the burden of persuasion has to
offer enough tangible, concrete evidence that it seems appropriate and
acceptable to change the status quo.
z
z It’s not clear exactly how much evidence is required to meet the standard.
There’s no mechanical or quantifiable test for what counts as legally
sufficient evidence, or for what counts as a permissibly “reasonable”
inference from such evidence. It’s simply a matter of judgment.
Suggested Reading
<
< Clermont, Civil Procedure Stories.
<
< Miller, “The Pretrial Rush to Judgment.”
<
< Wald, “Summary Judgment at Sixty.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Do summary judgment and judgment as a matter of law
impermissibly interfere with our right to a jury trial in
civil cases?
Þ
Þ How can a judge know what a “reasonable jury”
would conclude if the judge does not give the jury an
opportunity to resolve the suit?
248
Lecture 9
THE RIGHT TO A CIVIL
JURY TRIAL
J
uries play an important role in civil procedure. Even in cases that aren’t
ultimately resolved by juries, the prospect of a jury decision lurks in
the background, affecting the parties’ and the court’s decisions. In
this lecture, you’ll examine the right to a jury trial in civil cases, the virtues
and drawbacks of civil juries, and whether the mechanism of judgment as
a matter of law is consistent with the right to a jury trial.
JURIES IN CIVIL SUITS
z
z Is the civil jury a desirable institution? Or is it an inefficient relic
of a bygone era-or worse, likely to resolve cases based on emotion
and prejudice rather than reason? Your answer to this question will
probably drive your view about all the subsidiary questions about the
proper scope of the jury’s role.
z
z The framers of our Constitution thought that the right to a jury trial
was so important that the Seventh Amendment states that the right
“shall be preserved” in civil suits. According to the Supreme Court,
however, the Seventh Amendment is one of only a few provisions in the
Bill of Rights that doesn’t also apply to actions by state governments.
z
z The Supreme Court’s decision means that there is no federal
constitutional right to a civil jury trial in state court. States are free
to protect a right to a civil jury in their own constitutions, of course,
but they don’t have to do so as a matter of federal constitutional law.
Lecture 9- The Right to a Civil Jury Trial
249
And even in federal court, where the Seventh Amendment does apply,
there are certain types of civil suits to which the right to a jury trial
does not apply.
z
z Why do we permit juries to resolve civil suits, and sometimes guarantee
the parties a right to have a jury do so? In the criminal context, the
answer seems straightforward. There’s a right to a jury trial in criminal
cases because historically, juries served as a bulwark against the power
of the state to send a person to jail or worse.
Civil Procedure
250
z
z But we’re concerned here with civil suits, not criminal prosecutions.
Most civil suits aren’t brought by the government against a private
individual. Instead, most civil suits involve one private person suing
another; no one will go to jail as a consequence of the suit. Why might
we want a jury trial in those types of suits?
z
z There are three principal reasons, although all of them are contestable.
First, a dozen minds might be better than one, which is what we’d have
if a judge resolved all of the disputed questions in a civil suit. The idea is
that collective judgment is superior to individual judgment. One person
might miss something, or have idiosyncratic judgment. But if a group
of people is making the decision, at least one person is likely to notice
the important details, and the group will trend toward the mean, not
toward the extreme.
z
z Second, because juries are supposed to be a representative sample
of the community, the party who loses in a jury trial might be more
inclined to view the decision as legitimate. Many people tend to
view a trial by jury as part of their “day in court,” and are therefore
more willing to accept even adverse results produced by that process.
This might be simply because our legal culture has long used the jury
in this capacity; either way, jury decision-making would have taken on
a sheen of legitimacy.
z
z Third, even though the stakes in civil suits are not as high as they
are in criminal cases, they are still significant. A court might
order a defendant in a civil suit to pay a substantial amount of money,
or to surrender property. Just as we think of juries as an important
protection against arbitrary deprivations of life, liberty, or property in
the criminal context, perhaps we should see them as playing a similar
role in the civil context.
ARGUMENTS AGAINST CIVIL JURIES
z
z The justifications for the use of juries in civil suits are substantial.
Together, they suggest that juries can produce better, more legitimate
decisions while protecting against an over-reaching state. So why did
Lecture 9- The Right to a Civil Jury Trial
251
the Supreme Court determine that the right to a jury in a civil suit isn’t
sufficiently important that it must apply in suits in state court? The
answer has to do with the costs of juries in civil suits.
z
z First, the view that the jury represents the collective wisdom of the
community might be naïve and indefensibly romantic. Many cases
involve complex questions of science, economics, engineering, and
other hard-to-understand topics. A products-liability suit, for example,
might require the fact finder to understand how a sophisticated medical
device works; an antitrust suit might require the fact finder to decide
between competing testimony from academic economists.
z
z To make matters worse, the most highly educated people in the jury
pool are usually the most likely to be excused by the lawyers for the
parties when they’re deciding who’ll get to serve. In many cases,
one of the parties will assume that a well-educated juror won’t be as
favorably inclined to his position than a less well-educated juror. Even
if we think that it is unduly elitist to worry about this, perhaps we
should be concerned that the jury will not end up as a genuine cross
section of society.
z
z Second, it’s not obvious that decisions by juries are more legitimate.
Studies have consistently found that jurors are more likely than judges
to make decisions based on passion and prejudice than on reason and
evidence. Indeed, the rules of evidence, which are quite complex, exist
mainly to minimize the likelihood that lay juries will make decisions
based on impermissible factors.
z
z Third, a system of trial by jury is more expensive and inefficient
than a system of trial by judge. Many citizens see jury service as an
inconvenient burden. It takes considerable time and resources for the
government to create and summon a jury pool. It also takes time and
resources for the court and the parties to select jurors, to conduct trials
according to complicated rules of evidence, and to ensure that the jurors
are properly instructed about the law before they reach their decision.
Civil Procedure
252
JUDGMENT AS A MATTER OF LAW
z
z Judgment as a matter of law is a mechanism that permits a judge to
resolve a suit before a jury has had an opportunity to resolve the claims.
A judge can grant a motion for judgment as a matter of law only if no
reasonable jury could find in favor of the nonmoving party.
z
z Whenever a court grants judgment as a matter of law, it effectively
deprives the jury of the opportunity to decide the issues in the case.
Nevertheless, the Supreme Court has held that judgment as a matter of
law-formerly known as a directed verdict-is consistent with the right
to a trial by jury guaranteed by the Seventh Amendment.
z
z The Supreme Court’s decision came in the 1943 case Galloway v. United
States. In Galloway, the Court reasoned that granting a directed verdict
is not meaningfully different from procedures that
were common in 1791 that also deprived the
jury of the opportunity to decide a case.
z
z The Court noted, for example, that judges in
the late 18th century could grant what were called
demurrers. A demurrer was a motion to dismiss
the plaintiff’s claim; it accepted as true the facts
asserted by the plaintiff, but asserted that, even
if those facts were true, the plaintiff couldn’t
prevail as a matter of law.
z
z Another long-established procedure discussed by
the Court in Galloway was the ability of a court to
grant a request for a new trial if the jury’s verdict
was against the clear weight of the evidence.
The Court reasoned that granting judgment
as a matter of law isn’t meaningfully different, in its
effect on the right to a jury trial, from granting
a demurrer or a request for a new trial.
Lecture 9- The Right to a Civil Jury Trial
253
z
z But is that right? When a party demurred to a complaint, he conceded
the facts asserted in the complaint and argued that he nevertheless
was entitled to prevail. A demurrer by definition left only a question
of law-that is, whether, in light of the undisputed facts, the law
provides a remedy for the plaintiff. And questions of law have long been
for the court to resolve.
z
z New trials are similarly distinguishable from judgment as a matter
of law. While granting a motion for a new trial did displace the jury
verdict at issue, it still left the case in the hands of a jury-another jury,
after another trial. With judgment as a matter of law, however, no jury
gets to resolve the suit. The decision is made by the judge alone.
z
z The Supreme Court’s justification for its decision in Galloway is
connected to the standard for ruling on a motion for judgment
as a matter of law, which requires the presiding judge to consider
whether a reasonable jury could rule in favor of the party who wants
the trial to continue. The court can grant judgment as a matter of law
only if no reasonable jury could reach a different conclusion.
z
z Surely there’s no constitutional right to an unreasonable jury. If
a plaintiff sues in tort and then introduces no evidence at all to satisfy
his burden, the jury shouldn’t be permitted to rule in his favor-even
if the jurors are more sympathetic to the plaintiff and dislike the
defendant and his attorney. In such a case, it would seem indefensible to
permit the jury to rule against the defendant.
z
z At least in theory, a motion for judgment as a matter of law calls
upon the court to make only a legal determination: Is there a legally
sufficient basis for a reasonable jury to find in favor of either party?
Because legal determinations are within the judge’s competence, it
doesn’t deprive a party of the right to a jury trial when the court grants
judgment as a matter of law.
Civil Procedure
254
z
z Unfortunately, there’s no clear line between evidence that would be
sufficient to support a jury verdict and evidence that wouldn’t be. One
result is that the Seventh Amendment’s guarantee of a right to a trial
by jury often leads judges to err on the side of denying motions for
judgment as a matter of law in close cases, lest they unfairly deprive
parties of their constitutional rights to a jury trial.
Suggested Reading
<
< Abramson, We, the Jury.
<
< Gergen, “The Jury’s Role in Deciding Normative
Issues in the American Common Law.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Is the civil jury a heroic institution that does justice by
adding common sense to the judicial system, or is it an
inefficient and biased institution that undermines justice?
Þ
Þ From what you have learned here about the civil jury, has
your level of interest in serving on a jury changed? If so,
in which direction?
255
Lecture 10
DETERMINING WHAT
LAW APPLIES
T
he question of which state’s law will apply to a particular dispute is
an important one; in many cases, the answer will determine who
wins and who loses. This topic is known as conflict of laws, and it
can be confusing. Not only does every state have its own substantive law, but
each also has its own principles about when to apply another state’s law.
The focus of this lecture will be how federal courts decide which body of
law to apply.
FEDERAL COMMON LAW
z
z There are two principal types of cases that can be litigated in federal
court: cases in which the claims arise under federal law, and cases in
which the parties are from different states. If a suit is in federal court
because the claims arise under federal law, there’s no dispute about the
proper source of the law that governs the parties’ claims: it’s federal law.
Civil Procedure
256
z
z But what if we’re in federal court because the parties are from different
states? In the Rules of Decision Act, which Congress enacted in 1789,
Congress said that “the laws of the several states... shall be regarded
as rules of decision in civil actions in the courts of the United States,”
unless federal law provides otherwise. In other words, the default rule is
that state law governs in federal court. But which state’s law?
z
z In the middle of the 19th century, the Supreme Court held in a case
called Swift v. Tyson that the phrase “laws of the several states” in
the Rules of Decision Act had a very limited meaning. Specifically,
the Court held that this language referred only to state statutes and
constitutions that governed “strictly local” matters, not to state judicial
decisions that applied “general” principles of commercial law.
z
z In other words, the Court in Swift concluded that it could develop
and apply federal common law in diversity suits, as long as there was
no state statute or constitutional provision directly on point. That
meant that federal judges could consider precedent, policy, and all of
the other things that judges consider when making common law, thus
creating a body of judge-made federal law that sometimes would be
different from any one state’s common law.
Lecture 10- Determining What Law Applies
257
THE ERIE DOCTRINE
z
z The Swift decision encouraged forum shopping. Because the law that
applied in federal court in a diversity suit was often different from the
law that applied in state court, litigants could choose the forum that was
more favorable to them. This happened most often when corporations
removed suits from state to federal court, to get the application of the
more favorable federal common law.
z
z But the Swift approach didn’t endure. The Supreme Court overruled it
in its famous 1938 decision in Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins. What was
wrong with the Swift doctrine? One possibility the Court addressed
was that the Swift decision had simply been a misinterpretation of the
Rules of Decision Act.
z
z It certainly would’ve been plausible, the Court observed, for the
language of the Rules of Decision Act to mean that all state substantive
law, including state common law, governs in suits in federal court
that don’t arise under federal law. An earlier draft of the law, in fact,
had explicitly referred to “the law of the several States... and their
unwritten or common law now in use.”
z
z There are at least two problems with this justification. First, the Court
generally won’t overrule one of its prior decisions interpreting a statute,
even if it interpreted it in a questionable way, because Congress can
always overrule the Court just by enacting a new statute that makes
clear its intention. Congress never did that in this case, which suggests
that Congress was comfortable with the Court’s interpretation.
z
z Second, the evidence regarding the earlier draft showed that Congress
had considered a proposal to treat state common law as the rule of
decision in suits in federal court. But after considering it, Congress
enacted a law that didn’t refer to the common law. This could just as
easily be read to mean that Congress consciously chose not to require
federal courts to rely on state common law in deciding suits filed in
their diversity jurisdiction.
Civil Procedure
258
z
z As a result, the Court offered other reasons to change the rule
announced in Swift. In particular, the Court’s opinion observes that
Swift had produced “mischievous results.” The examples cited by the
Court focused on the unusual case of manipulation of citizenship to
create diversity, even though most critics of Swift recognized that the
bigger and more common problem was the ability of corporations to
remove suits to federal court.
z
z The Court went further, however, suggesting that Swift might even be
unconstitutional. Under the Swift regime, an out-of-state plaintiff could
sue an in-state defendant in federal court to get the benefit of federal
common law, thereby denying the defendant the opportunity to have his
case decided under state law. If both litigants were from the same state,
in contrast, the plaintiff wouldn’t have such a choice to disadvantage
the defendant. This result, the Court said, “rendered impossible equal
protection of the law” guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
z
z The Court’s equal-protection argument isn’t particularly convincing,
however, for two reasons: First, it’s just not the case that the Swift
approach operated only to the disadvantage of “citizens”-which
is to say residents of the state where the suit was filed. Sometimes
federal common law was better for the party suing or being sued at
home; sometimes it was better for the party suing or being sued away
from home.
z
z Second, the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits the states from denying
equal protection of the laws by discriminating against persons within
their borders. In 1938, when the Court decided the Erie case, the Court
had not yet concluded that the equal protection principle also applies
to actions of the federal government. It eventually did so, but the Court
in Erie didn’t explain how decisions of federal courts could violate
a constitutional principle that, at the time, only applied to decisions of
the states.
z
z Thus the Court suggested, albeit somewhat obliquely, that Swift was
unconstitutional for still other reasons. The Court said that “Congress
has no power to declare substantive rules of common law applicable
Lecture 10- Determining What Law Applies
259
in a state whether they be local in their nature or ‘general,’ be they
commercial law or a part of the law of torts.” In other words, the Court
seemed to say that, as a matter of federalism, Swift was wrong because
the federal government doesn’t have power to create law to govern
ordinary tort suits like the one at issue in Erie.
z
z Ultimately, the Court rejected the jurisprudential idea that was the
basis for the Court’s decision in Swift. As a result, Erie stands for the
proposition that state substantive law, and not federal common law,
governs in diversity suits in federal court. Of course, we still need to
decide which state’s substantive law should apply. But a federal court
deals with this problem rather straightforwardly, by applying the choice
of law rules of the state in which it sits.
Civil Procedure
260
SUBSTANCE AND PROCEDURE
z
z In 1938, the same year that it decided Erie, the Supreme Court issued
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to govern practice in federal
courts. The rules were designed to apply in all suits in federal courts,
including diversity suits. Like most procedural rules, they were also
designed to be trans-substantive, applying regardless of the particular
claim in the case.
z
z After the decision in Erie and the issuance of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, the law essentially was as follows: Substantive law applies
in diversity actions, but federal courts can devise and apply their own
rules of procedure. But this still leaves an important question, which is
how to determine whether a particular rule of state law is procedural
or substantive.
z
z It’s easy to tell the difference between procedural and substantive
rules at the extremes. A rule that says to apply the negligence standard
to a tort claim, for example, is clearly substantive. By contrast, a rule
requiring all motions to be typed with one-inch margins is clearly
procedural. But there are many cases where the question is a closer one.
z
z Consider the 1945 case of Guaranty Trust Co. v. York. The plaintiff filed
suit against a bank in federal court in New York, based on diversity of
citizenship, claiming that the bank had committed fraud. Under New
York’s common law, the suit would have been barred by the statute of
limitations. But the federal courts’ approach was not to apply a statute
of limitations in suits of this type.
z
z If New York’s statute of limitations was determined to be a substantive
rule, then under the Erie doctrine, it would control. After all, Erie
said that state substantive common law rules apply in diversity suits.
The bank argued that the state statute of limitations was substantive
and therefore should govern. The plaintiff argued that the statute of
limitations was procedural and therefore shouldn’t govern.
Lecture 10- Determining What Law Applies
261
z
z There’s no bright line between the categories of substance and
procedure, and a statute of limitations illustrates why. In some
ways, a statute of limitations seems procedural. We only care about
statutes of limitations once there’s a lawsuit. And a statute of limitations
simply governs when a person can enforce a right in court, not whether
he actually has the right.
z
z But in other ways, a statute of limitations seems substantive. If it
applies, and if it has run, then the plaintiff is barred from recovery.
Once it’s run, the plaintiff’s “right” becomes, for all practical purposes,
meaningless. In this sense, the statute of limitations defines the scope
of the plaintiff’s right not to be injured by the defendant.
z
z In York, the Court addressed the issue in light of the concerns identified
in Erie. The Court reasoned that the point of Erie’s rule was to ensure
that “the accident of a suit by a non-resident litigant in a federal court
instead of State court a block away should not lead to a substantially
different result.” The Court in York said that Erie was really about
preventing this kind of forum shopping-stopping litigants from
choosing between state and federal court simply to get a more favorable
rule or outcome.
z
z The Court said that the question thus wasn’t really whether a statute of
limitations is more properly characterized as substantive or procedural.
Instead, the Court said, that the relevant question was whether the
difference in state and federal rules would essentially determine the
outcome of the case. If it would, then the federal court must apply the
state rule. Otherwise, parties would decide where to sue based on which
court, state or federal, had the better rule for them.
z
z If a plaintiff would be barred from suing in one court by a rule,
even a rule that seems “procedural,” but could recover in the other
court, then the plaintiff will sue in the court where he can prevail.
A plaintiff obviously would sue in federal court to avoid a state statute
of limitations. And so, the Court determined, the federal court had
to apply the state statute of limitations, to discourage that kind of
forum shopping.
Civil Procedure
262
Suggested Reading
<
< Carrington, “‘Substance’ and ‘Procedure’ in
the Rules Enabling Act.”
<
< Clermont, Civil Procedure Stories.
<
< Lessig, “An Essay on Context in
Interpretive Theory.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ If the same law applies in federal courts sitting in
diversity and in the state courts that are across the street,
then why do we need federal courts to sit in diversity in
the first place?
Þ
Þ If state court judges enjoy the power to develop common
law rules to govern suits filed before them, then should
federal judges enjoy the same power?
263
Lecture 11
RELITIGATION AND
PRECLUSION
M
ost of the rules of civil procedure are about the mechanisms for
preparing and deciding claims. Among other things, they’re
designed to make sure that claims are likely to be resolved
correctly. Some rules, however, are designed simply to get things over
with. In this lecture, you’ll learn about the rules that prevent parties from
relitigating matters that have already been decided.
CLAIM PRECLUSION
z
z Claim preclusion and issue preclusion are two concepts that determine
the impact that prior litigation has on subsequent litigation. The basic
rule is that claims and issues tried and resolved in one suit generally
can’t be litigated again in a subsequent suit.
z
z The basic rule of claim preclusion is this: If you advance a claim, and it’s
adjudicated on the merits, you can’t reassert that claim in a subsequent
suit. But for the rule to actually bar a subsequent suit, you must first
conclude that it is based on the same claim asserted in the first suit.
z
z Some cases seem obvious. You can’t sue in one lawsuit for a broken
arm you sustained in a car accident, and then file a separate lawsuit for
a broken leg that you sustained in the same accident. You should assert
those claims in one suit or forever hold your peace.
Civil Procedure
264
z
z In a 1958 case, Rush v. City of Maple Heights, a state supreme court
went even further, holding that personal injuries and property damage
arising out of the same accident also constitute the same claim. This
is a clear extension of the previous example. But how far can we stretch
this concept?
z
z The
majority
approach
is
that
all
claims arising out of the same set of
circumstances, or that are otherwise
logically related, count as the “same
claim” for purposes of claim preclusion.
This means that a party can be
precluded from pressing a demand for
relief that it didn’t actually assert in prior
litigation, as long as it should have asserted
it in a prior suit.
z
z The majority approach to claim preclusion may seem unfair. This
is particularly the case when the doctrine is applied to plaintiffs
who might simply be less informed about the rules, as opposed to
those who are acting strategically by filing additional lawsuits. The
occasional unfairness of issue preclusion is justified by other important
interests, however.
Lecture 11- Relitigation and Preclusion
265
z
z Requiring parties to assert related claims in one suit reduces the
total number of suits and saves judicial resources. Moreover, by
preventing one litigant from invoking the judicial machinery twicethereby diverting resources from other litigants’ valid claims-claim
preclusion ensures a more equitable distribution of judicial resources.
Claim preclusion also promotes a sense of repose in prior judgments.
It promotes finality. And finally, it prevents plaintiffs from harassing
defendants with serial litigation.
z
z This doesn’t mean that claim preclusion only operates to the detriment
of plaintiffs. It also prevents defendants from resisting the binding
effect of judgments. Just as a plaintiff must assert all her theories for
relief in her initial suit, the defendant must also assert all his defenses
in that suit. In fact, this is the quintessential case for claim preclusion,
though in this context it’s usually known as defense preclusion.
ISSUE PRECLUSION
z
z Issue preclusion usually applies when a lawsuit involves a different claim
than was asserted previously, but involves an issue that was resolved
in a prior suit. Although the two ideas seem similar, issue preclusion
has a few requirements that make it different from claim preclusion.
z
z The first requirement is that the same issue have been actually
litigated-that is, raised and subject to proof-in a prior suit. This
makes issue preclusion very different from claim preclusion. Claim
preclusion bars relitigating any claim for relief that should have been
litigated in a prior suit, even if the party didn’t assert it.
z
z Issue preclusion, by contrast, doesn’t turn on the mere opportunity to
litigate an issue; it applies only when the issue was actually litigated by
the parties in a prior suit. If there were no such requirement, parties
would be tempted to litigate every conceivable issue in the first suiteven those whose resolution seems unnecessary to the case-just in
case the issue arises again in subsequent litigation.
Civil Procedure
266
z
z Another requirement for issue preclusion is that the issue must have
been necessary to the judgment in the first suit for it to be entitled to
preclusive effect. A matter is not necessary to the judgment if the same
result would have been produced even if the issue had been decided the
other way. By the same token, a matter is necessary to the judgment of
the first suit if the case would otherwise have come out the other way.
z
z There are three reasons why an issue must have been necessary to the
judgment for it to have preclusive effect in a subsequent lawsuit. First,
the losing party generally has the right to appeal. But you can’t appeal
if you win, even if in the course of ruling in your favor the jury makes
a finding that’s bad for you.
z
z Second, it would be nearly impossible to determine whether the jury
in the first lawsuit even considered the issue when making its ruling
unless the issue is necessary to the judgment. Third, an issue that
wasn’t necessary to the outcome of the first lawsuit might not have
garnered the full effort of the party against whom issue preclusion is
being asserted.
Lecture 11- Relitigation and Preclusion
267
NON-MUTUAL PRECLUSION
z
z A claim is a demand by one party that he’s entitled to legal relief from
another party. The concept of a claim presupposes one plaintiff and
one defendant. As a result, claim preclusion can’t be asserted against
someone who wasn’t a party to the initial lawsuit. It’s simply not the
same claim.
z
z The straightforward rule is that a stranger to the first suit can’t assert
or be bound by claim preclusion. The only real exception to the rule
concerns absent members of a class in a class action. Absent class
members are bound by a judgment in the suit, on the theory that the
named plaintiff provided adequate representation in the suit.
z
z Matters are different for issue preclusion. Issue preclusion usually
matters only when an issue that came up in the litigation of one claim
is relevant in the litigation of a different claim. Accordingly, a stranger
to the first suit often has good reason to want to assert issue preclusion
against a party who was involved in the first suit.
z
z The traditional rule was called mutuality, and it was based
on a straightforward notion of symmetry. Because a stranger to the
first action couldn’t be bound by the findings in the first action, the
stranger in turn couldn’t bind a person who was a party to the first
action to the findings in that suit. But this rule doesn’t always make
sense. In particular, it can give plaintiffs a second chance to litigate
issues they already lost, just by switching adversaries. This seems unfair
and abusive.
z
z Most jurisdictions have abandoned the traditional rule of mutuality
when issue preclusion is asserted by the defendant against a repeat
plaintiff. This is called defensive non-mutual issue preclusion. But what
if the plaintiff in the second suit wasn’t a party to the first suit, and he
asserts issue preclusion against the defendant on some issue that the
defendant lost in the first suit? In other words, what about offensive
non-mutual issue preclusion?
Civil Procedure
268
z
z There is a potential problem with allowing offensive non-mutual
issue preclusion. Imagine that a train crashed, injuring 50 passengers.
One passenger files suit for his injuries, alleging that the railroad was
negligent. The passenger loses the suit after the jury concludes that the
railroad was not negligent.
z
z When the second passenger sues, the railroad wouldn’t be able to assert
issue preclusion, even though it won the first suit, because of the rule
that you can’t assert preclusion against someone who wasn’t a party to
the first suit. So the railroad again litigates whether it was negligent.
The second passenger loses his suit, too, with the jury finding that the
railroad was not negligent.
z
z Twenty-three more passengers separately sue the railroad. Each one
litigates whether the railroad was negligent, and in each case, the
railroad wins. The very next passenger, however, gets a good lawyer
and very sympathetic jury. In his case, the jury finds that the railroad’s
negligence caused the accident.
z
z What should happen when the remaining passengers sue the railroad?
Is it fair to permit them to assert offensive non-mutual issue preclusion
against the railroad to prevent it from denying its negligence? Given
that there have been 25 determinations in favor of the railroad, the one
determination against seems aberrational. We also wouldn’t want to
give prospective plaintiffs an incentive to sit on the sidelines and wait to
see how other litigants do, taking advantage of others’ efforts only when
it benefits them.
z
z But even if issue preclusion in this case seems unfair to the railroad,
there might be other cases when it seems more appropriate.
Consider a case called Parklane Hosiery Co. v. Shore. In the first suit, the
federal government sued Parklane to stop it from violating securities
laws. The government won after the court found that Parklane had
made a fraudulent misrepresentation. Parklane shareholders then
brought a suit against the company for damages caused by the fraud.
They asserted issue preclusion on the question whether the company
had made a misrepresentation.
Lecture 11- Relitigation and Preclusion
269
z
z In its decision, handed down in 1979, the Supreme Court permitted the
company’s shareholders to assert offensive non-mutual issue preclusion.
Unlike the example of the train accident, there had been no prior
judgments in favor of Parklane. There had been only one other suit, and
Parklane had lost. It’s entirely possible, of course, that the court got it
wrong in the government’s suit. But because there were no additional
suits, there’s no way to know.
z
z Although the Supreme Court permitted the plaintiffs to assert offensive
non-mutual issue preclusion in the case, it made clear that it’s not
always permitted. Instead, the Court announced a two-part test for
determining whether to permit an assertion of offensive non-mutual
issue preclusion.
z
z First, the court asks whether the plaintiff could have intervened in the
first suit. If the circumstances suggest that the plaintiff in the second
suit intentionally took a wait-and-see attitude toward the first suit, then
preclusion might be inappropriate. We don’t want plaintiffs to take
advantage of the work of others, especially when it will lead to more
litigation, rather than less.
Civil Procedure
270
z
z Second, the court asks whether it would otherwise be unfair to the
defendant to apply issue preclusion. It would be unfair if the judgment
from the prior action was inconsistent with other judgments in favor
of the defendant; if the defendant didn’t have adequate incentive to
litigate fully in the first suit; or if any procedural opportunities were
unavailable in the first action that could readily cause a different result.
z
z As with many of the doctrines of civil procedure, formulating the
rules for claim and issue preclusion requires us to balance the principle
of a fair day in court against the need to conserve judicial resources
and the desire to prevent the use of litigation as a form of harassment.
Lawyers familiar with the rules know that sometimes you need to speak
now or forever hold your peace.
Suggested Reading
<
< Clermont, Civil Procedure Stories.
<
< Currie, “Mutuality of Collateral Estoppel.”
<
< Shapiro, Civil Procedure.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Under the doctrine of stare decisis, courts follow
precedent. How do the doctrines of claim and issue
preclusion differ from this doctrine?
Þ
Þ Should a person be permitted to assert preclusion if he
wasn’t a party to the previous lawsuit?
271
Lecture 12
APPEALS AND HOW
THEY ARE JUDGED
T
his lecture examines the appeals process, including key aspects of
the relationship between trial courts and appellate courts. Topics
addressed include when and on what grounds a party is allowed to
appeal a trial court’s decision, as well as the various standards an appellate
court might apply as part of its review.
TRIALS AND APPEALS
z
z Trial courts are where plaintiffs file lawsuits. As the name suggests,
they’re also where the parties’ claims are tried. Appellate courts review
trial court decisions. Most U.S. jurisdictions, including the federal
court system, have two layers of appellate courts.
z
z The first layer of appellate courts is made up of intermediate courts of
appeals, to which a party who lost in the trial court will often have an
automatic right of appeal. The second layer is typically the jurisdiction’s
court of last resort-often, but not always, known as a supreme courtwhich can usually choose which cases it will hear.
z
z Let’s say you’ve been sued far from home, but the trial court denied
your motion to dismiss the case for lack of personal jurisdiction. Can
you appeal that decision immediately, or do you have to wait until the
court resolves all of the plaintiff’s claims? The short answer is that
it depends. Some court systems in the United States let you file an
immediate appeal, but most require you to wait.
Civil Procedure
272
z
z In thinking about which approach makes more sense, we need to
distinguish between two types of trial court decisions. First, in the
course of any lawsuit, the trial court makes many interlocutory rulings.
These are decisions that do not ultimately resolve the claims raised by
the parties, but that happen along the way to a final decision.
z
z Second, a court resolves a suit by entering a final judgment. As the
name implies, a final judgment is the court’s final disposition of the
case. A final judgment might say, for example, that the defendant is
liable to the plaintiff and is ordered to pay $100,000 in damages.
Lecture 12- Appeals and How They Are Judged
273
z
z In the example of the suit far from home, if the court had granted the
motion and dismissed the plaintiff’s claims, it presumably would have
entered a final judgment. But because the court denied your motion, the
suit will continue. That means that the decision you’d like to challenge
was an interlocutory order.
z
z The general rule in most of the court systems in the United States is that
you can’t appeal such an interlocutory decision. In the federal courts,
for example, generally a party can appeal only from a final judgment.
If you’re upset by an interlocutory order, you will almost always have to
wait until the trial court resolves the case and enters a final order before
you can appeal. Some state courts do allow interlocutory appeals.
TIME AND MONEY
z
z In the suit you’re facing far from home, it’s not hard to see the attraction
of a rule that lets you take an immediate appeal. If the court of appeals
agrees with you that there’s no personal jurisdiction over you, the
court will reverse the trial court and order the suit dismissed. An
interlocutory appeal on an issue like this one can terminate the suit and
avoid the expense of a trial.
z
z Just think how wasteful and unfair it would be if you couldn’t appeal
immediately-if instead you had to go to the time and expense of
defending against the plaintiff’s claims at trial only to learn on appeal
that in fact the trial court lacked personal jurisdiction. In that case,
everything that happened after the trial court’s decision denying your
motion to dismiss will have been a waste. That seems unfair.
z
z Now imagine that the decision you want to appeal wasn’t the denial of
your motion to dismiss, but instead a discovery order requiring you to
disclose any information you have showing that you sought estimates
for the cost of repairs to your front steps, which the plaintiff fell on.
Does it make sense to permit you to take an immediate appeal of
that order?
Civil Procedure
274
z
z Unlike a successful appeal of the court’s denial of your motion to
dismiss, a successful appeal of this decision won’t end the suit. It would
just mean that the plaintiff has to find other evidence to support his
claim of negligence. In fact, the resolution of most interlocutory
orders doesn’t terminate the suit. And there’s no reason to think that
the discovery order will be the only decision the judge makes that you
disagree with and that might have an impact on the ultimate outcome
of the suit.
z
z Because there are likely to be multiple contested interlocutory orders
in any given suit, a rule requiring final judgment to be entered before
parties can appeal saves resources by consolidating all of the parties’
objections into a single appeal. The final judgment rule might also
promote efficiency even when what’s at issue is the trial court’s denial
of your motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction.
Lecture 12- Appeals and How They Are Judged
275
z
z The final judgment rule might save resources in another way, even if you
turn out to have been right about personal jurisdiction, or about your
right to shield information during discovery, or about the admissibility
of evidence at trial. If you can’t appeal those decisions immediately
but then end up winning at trial on the merits, there’ll be no reason to
appeal the trial court’s resolution of those interlocutory issues. You’ll
take your win in court and go home. In that case, the appeals will have
been mooted, and we won’t need to burden the court of appeals with
them at all.
z
z And just as we said that prohibiting interlocutory appeals might be
unfair to the party denied an immediate appeal, permitting such appeals
might be unfair to the other party. There are arguments based on
fairness and efficiency both for and against the competing approaches.
z
z At bottom, whether to permit interlocutory appeals turns on an
empirical question: are trial court rulings more often correct than they
are incorrect? If they’re more often correct, appeals are more likely
to be wasteful. If they’re incorrect more often, immediate appeals are
more likely to promote fairness and possibly avoid costly litigation.
QUESTIONS OF FACT
z
z Whether a court of appeals will reverse a trial court decision turns in
large part on the standard that the appellate court uses to review the
order. For example, if the court of appeals will reverse a trial court
order only if it was clearly wrong, then it won’t be enough to show that,
on balance, the trial court was wrong.
z
z The various standards of review require appellate courts to exercise
different degrees of independent judgment as they review the decisions
made by lower courts. We’ll now consider the standards of review
that appellate courts apply, focusing in particular on when and why
appellate courts defer to trial court decisions.
276
z
z When an appellate court defers to a decision, it doesn’t try to answer
the question independently. Instead, it treats the trial court’s answer
as presumptively correct and asks whether there’s some particularly
good reason to reverse it. A common situation involving
deference of this type is an appellate court’s review of
findings of fact made by a trial judge.
z
z In federal court and in most
state systems, a court of
appeals won’t reverse
a trial judge’s finding
of fact simply because
it would have
reached a different
conclusion based
on the evidence.
Instead, it will reverse
a trial judge’s factual
finding only if it was
clearly erroneous.
z
z One
reason
appellate
courts
defer
to
factfinding by trial courts is
that a trial court gets to
observe the witnesses and
gauge their credibility.
The trial judge can see if
the witnesses look shifty,
or are sweating profusely.
The appellate judges, in
contrast, can only review
the written transcript of
the testimony.
277
z
z There’s also a systemic reason to defer to the trial judge’s factual
findings: If an appellate court had to determine in every case whether
the evidence was the type that the trial judge was better suited to
review, there would be more appeals and more claims for searching
appellate review.
z
z If the parties could always have at least a plausible opportunity
to relitigate factual questions on appeal, the original trial would
become a pointless exercise. Why waste time having a trial before the
trial judge if the court of appeals is just going to make its own findings
of fact?
QUESTIONS OF LAW
z
z There’s also no reason to think that trial judges are better than
appellate judges at discerning the law. In fact, the opposite might be
true. A trial judge might never have encountered a particular type
of case before; the court of appeals, which hears appeals from all of
the trial courts in the jurisdiction, will likely have some familiarity
with it.
z
z In addition, in our system, trial courts are bound by the
decisions of appellate courts in their jurisdiction, but not vice
versa. This means that the court of appeals is the most sensible
actor to interpret the law and to ensure that it’s consistently
applied. This makes trial court conclusions of law very different
from their findings of fact.
z
z For
these
reasons,
appellate
courts
generally
review a trial court’s conclusions of law de novo, or anew.
In other words, appellate courts don’t defer to trial court
conclusions of law. Instead, they resolve legal questions
according to their best judgment, regardless of what the trial
judge thought about the issue.
Civil Procedure
278
z
z Any time appellate courts review something de novo, there’s an
increased incentive for the party who loses in the trial court to appeal.
You can imagine that there might be some concern that parties who
lose on legal questions in the trial court will get two bites at the apple.
But this typically isn’t the case.
z
z Once the court of appeals announces a legal standard, the court of
appeals and the trial courts below it will be bound by the standard in
future cases. This is the doctrine of stare decisis, from the Latin for “to
stand by things decided.” So there’s little incentive for litigants to appeal
trial court conclusions of law when they follow precedent.
JURY DETERMINATIONS
z
z Appellate courts are particularly deferential to decisions made by juries.
In part, this is because juries never decide purely legal questions. They
decide questions of fact, and they apply the law to the facts based on
instructions from the judge. Jurors also have the opportunity to see the
witnesses and asses their demeanor.
z
z The Seventh Amendment to the U.S. Constitution provides not only
that the right to a jury trial shall be “preserved,” but also that “no fact
tried by a jury” shall be “otherwise re-examined in any Court of the
United States, than according to the rules of the common law.”
Lecture 12- Appeals and How They Are Judged
279
z
z At a minimum, this language means that appellate courts must be
sensitive to the importance we assign to fact-finding by the jury. But
it also indicates that appellate courts can review jury decisions if the
review is of something other than fact-finding, or if the review is
consistent with traditional, common law approaches to reviewing jury
decision-making.
z
z Although courts of appeals probably can’t directly review jury
determinations, they can review decisions by trial judges granting or
denying motions for judgment as a matter of law. And because those
decisions raise questions of law, courts of appeals review them de novo.
Suggested Reading
<
< Estreicher and Sexton, “A Managerial Theory of
the Supreme Court’s Responsibilities.”
<
< Najam, “Caught in the Middle.”
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should a defendant always be permitted immediately to
appeal a trial court’s denial of a motion to dismiss for lack
of personal jurisdiction?
Þ
Þ Should Congress require the Supreme Court to hear
certain types of cases-or prevent it from hearing others?
Torts
Edward K. Cheng, J.D.
282
Professor Biography
Edward K. Cheng, J.D.
Professor of Law
Vanderbilt Law School
Edward K. Cheng is a Professor of
Law at Vanderbilt Law School. His
scholarship focuses on scientific and
expert evidence and the interaction
of law and statistics. Professor Cheng
is a coauthor of the five-volume
treatise Modern Scientific Evidence:
The Law and Science of Expert Testimony (with David L. Faigman, Jennifer
L. Mnookin, Erin E. Murphy, Joseph Sanders, and Christopher Slobogin).
His research has appeared in The Yale Law Journal, Stanford Law Review,
and Columbia Law Review, among other places. Professor Cheng teaches
Evidence, Torts, and Statistical Concepts for Lawyers and is a six-time
winner of the Hall-Hartman Outstanding Professor Award for excellence in
teaching at Vanderbilt. He is a former chair of the Section on Evidence of the
Association of American Law Schools and is the host of Excited Utterance,
a podcast on scholarship in evidence and proof.
Professor Cheng holds a J.D. (cum laude) from Harvard Law School, where
he was the Articles, Book Reviews & Commentaries Chair of the Harvard
Law Review; an M.A. in Statistics from Columbia University; an M.Sc. (with
distinction) in Information Systems from the London School of Economics,
where he was a Fulbright Scholar; and a B.S.E. (summa cum laude, Phi Beta
Kappa) in Electrical Engineering from Princeton University. He clerked
for Judge Stephen F. Williams of the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit and previously taught at Northwestern
University and Brooklyn Law School. ■
Course Scope
283
Torts
T
orts are part of everyday life. Car accidents, slip-and-falls, medical
malpractice, dangerous products, and harmful pharmaceuticals can
all result in what the law calls a tort, or private wrong. In a tort case,
the defendant is accused of behaving badly and causing some kind of injury
to the plaintiff, and is potentially liable for damages.
In this course, we cover the fundamental concepts and controversies that
underlie the American tort system. We begin with the core of torts-the
negligence claim-and break it down into its constituent parts. To recover for
negligence, a plaintiff must prove that the defendant had a duty to exercise
reasonable care but breached that duty, and that the breach caused damage
to the plaintiff. Probing each of these elements, we encounter all kinds of
complexity. For example, while we all have a duty not to harm others, do we
have a duty to affirmatively help someone in need? How do we determine
what constitutes reasonable care? Is the care expected of the average person
the same as that expected of the young, the aged, or the disabled? What does
it mean for a defendant to “cause” an injury? Can we infer causation? What
happens if the damage caused is bizarre and wholly unexpected?
After fleshing out the basic negligence claim, the course explores other
legal complications. For example, what happens when there are multiple
defendants, or when the tort is committed by the defendant’s employee?
What happens when the plaintiff is also negligent, or was aware of the
risks associated with the defendant’s activity? How does such contributory
negligence or assumption of risk affect the plaintiff’s claim?
Negligence forms the baseline rule in torts, and in negligence claims, there
is no liability without fault. But there are exceptions where tort law imposes
strict liability, holding the defendant liable for simply causing the damage,
regardless of fault. We first examine two pockets of strict liability-one
involving the ownership of wild animals, and the other involving so-called
ultrahazardous activities, like blasting. We then turn to the largest category
Course Scope
284
of strict liability, modern products-liability law. The course looks at the
historical rise of strict products liability, the reasons for imposing strict
liability in the product context, and the current state of the law. Finally,
we discuss punitive damages, a hot-button topic with eye-catching dollar
values and plenty of critics.
All along the way, the course will challenge you with the philosophical
and policy questions that underlie tort law. Should the baseline rule be
negligence, or should it be strict liability? In other words, should the
defendant only have to pay if he is at fault? What is the proper role of the jury
in our judicial system, and how much judicial supervision of jury verdicts is
desirable? In developing tort law, should we prefer bright-line rules, which
are easy to apply but rigid, or should we prefer standards, which are flexible
and fact-specific, but require considerable discretion?
Finally, throughout the course, we will cover some of the most famous cases
from law school, the old chestnuts that all lawyers share as part of their
common vocabulary. And because fact is often stranger than fiction, you
will hear some remarkable and memorable tales. From amusement park
rides to unruly fires, hunting accidents to drunken sailors, exploding Coke
bottles to pet tigers, the study of torts is chock-full of crazy stories.
In everyday life, the world of torts is practically unavoidable. Whether it’s
late-night television commercials or billboards promising a cash settlement,
class action notices or product recalls you receive in the mail, or an
unfortunate fender bender on Fifth and Main, torts are everywhere. When
you are finished with this course, you’ll have a better understanding of what
tort law is really all about, and why, warts and all, torts remain a critical part
of our judicial system. ■
285
Lecture 1
THE CALAMITOUS
WORLD OF TORT LAW
T
ort law is the law of everyday life, involved in everything from routine
car accidents to multimillion-dollar products-liability cases. This
lecture provides an overview of this important area of the law, with
particular emphasis on the mechanisms by which tort law changes over
time to account for developments in politics and society.
Torts
286
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE
z
z Change typically happens very slowly. The tort law of today is most
likely going to be the tort law of tomorrow, as well as the tort law 10 years
from now. But change does happen. It’s important to keep in mind that
the law doesn’t represent some kind of universal or unchanging truth.
z
z One great example of the evolution of tort law is found in the tension
between negligence and strict liability. The idea of negligence is that the
defendant must be at fault before the defendant is liable for damages.
In contrast, under strict liability, as long as the defendant caused the
plaintiff’s harm, the defendant is liable. No fault is necessary.
z
z Prior to the 19th century, the dominant rule in torts was strict liability,
not negligence. If you caused harm, you had to pay for it, regardless
of whether you were at fault. Only in the mid-19th century did tort law
experience the revolution that replaced strict liability with negligence.
Lecture 1- The Calamitous World of Tort Law
287
z
z Scholars have proposed many theories for why negligence replaced
strict liability as the guiding principle of modern torts. Two of the more
interesting ones point to the key societal change in mid-19th century
America: industrialization.
z
z One theory is that as the United States shifted from a more sparsely
populated agrarian society to a more crowded industrial one, the
likelihood of joint accidents increased considerably. As such cases
became more common, negligence wove its way in legal discourse
and consciousness.
z
z The second theory is a more controversial one, with political and
ideological overtones. Professor Morton Horwitz famously proposed
that negligence arose as a subsidy to industrial interests. In the 19th
century, incidents involving trains were frighteningly common. If you
are a railroad company operating under a strict liability regime, you
pay for all of these harms.
z
z Under a negligence regime, railroad operation becomes considerably
cheaper. As long as you take reasonable precautions, the liability
disappears. Under a negligence regime, you only pay if you behaved
unreasonably. That difference in liability payouts becomes the subsidy.
z
z Regardless of the reason, negligence soon replaced strict liability as
the dominant rule. Tort law changes with the times, however, and
the pendulum would eventually swing back. In the 1960s, a series of
products-liability cases in the California Supreme Court would usher
in the return of strict liability-arguably a response to the modern
consumer economy.
COMMON LAW
z
z Unlike many other areas of modern American law, including criminal
law, torts remains a common law field. That means that most of tort law
is judge-made law, and it evolves and develops through cases. Judges
decide individual cases using reason, experience, and precedentpreviously decided cases.
Torts
288
z
z From time to time, attempts are made to organize and systematize
this patchwork of cases. For example, a torts scholar may try to give
coherence to an area of torts in a law review article or a treatise.
Sometimes, organizations like the American Law Institute assemble
groups of judges, lawyers, and scholars to restate the law of torts
in a single document.
z
z None of these systemization efforts are legally binding. The article,
treatise, or restatement is merely persuasive authority, resting only on
the strength of its reasoning. Future courts must adopt them before
they have the full weight of law. And even if a court adopts a particular
provision, that precedent is only binding authority with regard to the
one specific matter at issue in the case.
z
z Courts do things one case at a time. A common law area like torts
therefore differs significantly from a statutory field such as criminal
law, where Congress or a state legislature may pass the entire body
of governing law all at once, or periodically make broad sweeping
amendments to the field.
z
z This structure means that tort law typically evolves through an
extremely gradual and accretive process. Cases tend to follow previous
cases, but sometimes will create exceptions or strike off in subtly
different directions. Tensions within doctrines or between doctrines
build over time, until they are resolved in notable cases, which then
anchor the next stage of development.
z
z While notable cases in tort law are incredibly important, they are the
exception, not the rule. They are famous because they are aberrational.
The typical tort case is far more mundane. Often, the law is so well
established and stable that the parties settle, or at most go to a jury
verdict. Appeals and fancy new legal arguments aren’t even really
on the table.
Lecture 1- The Calamitous World of Tort Law
289
REFORM EFFORTS
z
z The fact that most of tort law is judge-made does not mean that it
has to be that way. For the most part, legislatures have the authority
to displace the common law of torts with a comprehensive statutory
scheme. Legislatures have not done so thus far, but they certainly could.
z
z There are a few areas over the last few decades in which legislatures
have made forays into tort law, often in the service of tort reform.
Although the phrase “tort reform” suggests a somewhat neutral stance,
tort reform almost always refers to a distinct policy agenda founded
on the belief that plaintiffs are abusing the tort system and recovering
excessive amounts from defendants.
z
z Tort reform is a pretty vague category, and it can expand to encompass
many things. For example, over the last few decades, courts have
heightened the scrutiny given to expert
witnesses used in tort cases. In a sense,
this change advanced the tort reform
agenda, because it created obstacles
for plaintiffs. In its traditional sense,
however, “tort reform” is a phrase
applied to legislative efforts.
z
z One well-known tort reform effort
involves damages. The concern is
juries can make arbitrarily large
awards when dealing with vague or
ambiguous injuries, such as pain
and suffering. Many legislatures
have therefore imposed damage
caps, at least in certain areas like
medical malpractice. The precise
limits vary by state, but they’re
often in the range of $250,000
to $750,000.
Torts
290
z
z Another ongoing legislative tort reform effort focuses on class actions,
which enable tort plaintiffs to join forces and aggregate their claims
into a single lawsuit. Because of their large size, class actions pressure
defendants to settle, which means that they are subject to abuse. For
this and other reasons, federal legislators have tried to make class
actions more difficult to bring. Such efforts have generally been
unsuccessful thus far.
Suggested Reading
<
< George and Sherry, What Every Law Student
Really Needs to Know.
<
< Horwitz, The Transformation of American Law.
<
< Huber, Liability.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Negligence and strict liability both hold intuitive
appeal as the baseline rule for torts. Today, however,
negligence-no liability without fault-is the governing
principle of modern American tort law. Is negligence the
right default rule for torts? Why or why not?
Þ
Þ The common law that traditionally governs tort claims
represents a case-by-case, bottom-up process of legal
development-a stark contrast from the holistic, topdown process that is a hallmark of statutory frameworks.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of each
approach? Do you agree that tort law is best developed via
the common law?
291
Lecture 2
LEGAL DUTY TO OTHERS
T
he concept of duty is a significant one in tort law. All people
have a duty not to actively harm another person. As a general rule,
however-and regardless of what religious and ethical authorities
may advise-there is no legal duty to affirmatively prevent harm. In this
lecture, you’ll learn about the common law basis for this rule, efforts by state
legislatures to change it, and some well-established exceptions to the rule.
MISFEASANCE AND NONFEASANCE
z
z Negligence is a critical concept in many tort suits. A negligence claim
is the basic claim made by a plaintiff who has been injured by someone
accidentally. To prevail on a negligence claim, the plaintiff needs
to demonstrate several things; the first of these is that the defendant
had a duty toward the plaintiff. To establish duty, the plaintiff needs
to show that the defendant had an obligation to exercise some kind of
reasonable care in his behavior.
z
z In talking about duty,
it’s useful to separate
two types of wrongful
conduct: misfeasance
and nonfeasance.
Misfeasance is an act
that is done improperly
and
thus
results
in
harm. If you run a red light and
hit a pedestrian, that is a misfeasance,
because you have driven improperly and
caused harm to the pedestrian.
Torts
292
z
z Nonfeasance, by contrast, is the failure to do something that would
have prevented harm. Stepping over a baby that’s lying in a puddle
without helping is a nonfeasance. It wasn’t a direct act that caused the
harm; rather, it was your failure to act. The reason for distinguishing
misfeasance from nonfeasance is that the law requires different levels of
duty with respect to each.
z
z For misfeasance, the rule is straightforward: You always (or nearly
always) have a duty to refrain from misfeasance. In other words, you
have a duty to refrain from acting improperly or else. The more difficult
area is nonfeasance. Under the common law, there is no liability for
nonfeasance. This is often referred to as the no-duty-to-a-stranger rule.
z
z Over the years, scholars have offered a number of justifications for the
no-duty-to-a-stranger rule. One of the most powerful rationales draws
on the American preference for liberty, embodied in the idea of rugged
individualism. We are simply responsible for ourselves. Your right to
swing your fist ends at another person’s nose.
z
z R e l a t e d
to this value
of liberty is
Lecture 2- Legal Duty to Others
293
the more practical problem of slippery slopes. If there were a duty to
aid others, where would it end? Where would charity end, for instance?
A strong affirmative duty to help would mean that, as a legal obligation,
you would have to forgo your next fancy dinner-or perhaps any food at
all beyond your basic needs-so that money could help feed the hungry.
z
z Consider the famous Kitty Genovese case. As The New York Times
reported it back in 1964, “for more than half an hour, 38 respectable,
law-abiding citizens in Queens watched a killer stalk and stab
[Genovese].” After an initial attack, neighbors heard her cries for
help, but no one contacted the police. The killer later came back to
finish the job.
z
z Now consider the case through the lens of affirmative duties. If the law
created an affirmative duty to help, who would be legally responsible
to Kitty Genovese? All 38 neighbors reported by The New York Times?
What about other folks in the neighborhood? It’s hard to pin blame on
any one specific person.
z
z For all the problems of affirmative duties, the no-duty-to-a-stranger
rule also just seems wrong. Part of it may be moral-in certain
situations, failing to help just seems reprehensible. But from a public
policy perspective, it’s also plain inefficient. It costs you nothing, or
very little, to throw someone a life preserver, or to call the police. Yet
the benefits of saving someone’s life are profound.
z
z Some states have passed what are known as Good Samaritan laws,
which modestly try to encourage Good Samaritan-type behavior. For
example, some states protect Good Samaritans from liability if they
make an earnest effort but mess up. Others, like Vermont, impose
modest fines for failing to help. Generally, however, the victim still
can’t sue the so-called Bad Samaritan in tort for full damages. The noduty-to-a-stranger rule has had remarkable staying power.
Torts
294
GRATUITOUS UNDERTAKINGS
z
z There are, however, exceptions to the basic rule governing nonfeasance.
The first set involves what can best be described as rescues gone badsometimes called gratuitous undertakings. These are cases in which
the defendant started with no duty to help the stranger, but because he
tried to help, he acquired a duty to finish the job, or at least to attempt
the rescue properly.
z
z Erie Railroad v. Stewart is a federal case from 1930. The plaintiff,
Stewart, was the passenger in a truck that was hit by one of the
defendant’s trains at a railroad crossing in Cleveland. At the
time, there were no automatic railroad crossings to block
traffic. Instead, the Erie Railroad employed a watchman, who
sat inside a hut-a “shanty,” as the court calls it-and would
physically come out and warn people of an oncoming train.
As the train and the plaintiff’s truck approached the crossing,
the watchman was nowhere to be found. The watchman
failed to warn the driver, and the truck was smashed.
z
z Does the railroad have a duty to warn passersby? If there
had been no shanty and no watchman, the court presumes
no. The idea is that, just as you are expected to look both
ways before you cross the street, a driver must look both
ways before crossing railroad tracks, because obviously it’s
not going to be the train that stops. Working under
that assumption, the railroad has no duty to
warn or otherwise help.
Lecture 2- Legal Duty to Others
295
z
z In the Erie case, however, the railroad suckered the driver into the
accident with the train. If there’s a shanty and the watchman is standing
outside waving, there’s a train coming. If there’s no watchman, then it’s
safe. The railroad can’t then say that because they weren’t obligated to
provide the watchman to start, it’s fine if they provide an inadequate
one and trick drivers into relying on them.
SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS
z
z The other large set of exceptions to the no-duty-to-a-stranger rule
are cases in which the defendant has a special relationship with the
plaintiff. In some instances, your job might give you an affirmative
duty to help a stranger, based on your contract or your position of
authority. A lifeguard, for example, can’t just watch someone drown; he
has an affirmative duty to save a swimmer in distress.
Torts
296
z
z Another special relationship involves common carriers-boats, buses,
trains, and other forms of transportation available to all comers. A ship
captain, for example, has a duty to the ship’s passengers. If the ship is
sinking, the captain can’t just jump ship and let the passengers fend
for themselves. Sadly, there have been several high-profile cases of ship
captains doing precisely that.
z
z Lifeguards and ship captains are pretty obvious and relatively
uncontroversial cases involving special relationships. The affirmative
duty is intuitively part of their positions of authority. Somewhat more
complex and controversial, however, are more modern cases that push
the envelope on special relationships, often by creating affirmative
duties to protect victims from criminals and other third parties.
Suggested Reading
<
< Erie Railroad v. Stewart.
<
< Kline v. 1500 Mass. Ave. Apartment Corp.
<
< Latane and Darley, The Unresponsive Bystander.
<
< Yania v. Bigan.
<
< Zelenko v. Gimbel Bros.
Lecture 2- Legal Duty to Others
297
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Consider Vermont’s Bad Samaritan Statute, originally
passed in 1967:
§ 519. Emergency medical care
(a) A person who knows that another is exposed to
grave physical harm shall, to the extent that the same
can be rendered without danger or peril to himself
or without interference with important duties owed
to others, give reasonable assistance to the exposed
person unless that assistance or care is being provided
by others.
* * *
(c) A person who willfully violates subsection (a) of
this section shall be fined not more than $100.00.
Should such a statute be on the books? Is there any value
to such a law given that the fines are no more than $100?
Þ
Þ The affirmative-duty cases, and the duty-to-rescue cases
in particular, illustrate the sharp contrast between moral
obligation and legal obligation. Is such a gap between
legal acts and moral acts desirable? Why or why not?
Þ
Þ Consider a famous hypothetical first proposed by Lord
Macaulay in discussing the Indian Penal Code in the
19th century: Suppose a surgeon is the only person who
can perform a life-saving operation, but the operation
requires extensive travel across the continent. If the
surgeon refuses and the patient dies, is the surgeon
responsible for the death? Why or why not? What if
the surgeon would be fully compensated? What if the
proposed operation is at the hospital down the street?
298
Lecture 3
REASONABLE CARE
AND THE REASONABLE
PERSON
T
ort law generally requires that defendants take reasonable care. In this
lecture, you’ll learn how the concept of reasonable care is defined.
You’ll also examine the complications associated with the standard
of reasonable care. Finally, you’ll compare the standard to a more modern
formulation based on cost-benefit analysis.
THE REASONABLE PERSON
z
z To determine reasonable care, the legal system often invokes the
concept of the reasonable person. Who this reasonable person is,
however, is a bit mysterious. First of all, the reasonable person is not
the average person. In fact, it’s probably not anyone you know. Rather,
the reasonable person is a kind of mythical being that we all aspire to
be-or at least that tort law would like us to be.
z
z The reasonable person never leaves a lit stove unattended, for example.
He never fails to lock the door. He shovels his driveway when it snows,
and salts it when it’s icy. The reasonable person never talks on the
phone while he’s driving, never daydreams while riding a bicycle, and
certainly never plays Pokémon Go while walking down the street. The
reasonable person takes medication at the correct interval and dose,
and only when directed by a doctor.
Lecture 3- Reasonable Care and the Reasonable Person
299
z
z If we were all reasonable people all of the time, there would be fewer
accidents and injuries in this world. Perhaps there would still be some,
but they would be far, far fewer in number. And tort law would be far
less interesting.
z
z One anomalous thing about the reasonable-person concept is that, by
and large, it is what is known as an objective standard. By objective,
what we mean is that the expected amount of care is set from the
outside, without regard to the individual characteristics of a particular
defendant in a particular case. This is in contrast to a subjective
standard, where we would care about what the defendant was thinking,
or whether he was trying his best.
Torts
300
z
z Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes offered
a good explanation for the objective
standard: “If... a man is born hasty and
awkward, is always having accidents
and hurting himself or his neighbors,
no doubt his congenital defects will be
allowed for in the courts of heaven but
his slips are no less troublesome to his
neighbors then if they sprang from guilty
neglect.” In other words, well-meaning but
careless defendants still cause damage.
z
z Another reason to prefer objective over subjective standards has to do
with proof or administrability. Reasonable care is a pretty clear target.
It is some average level of care that we expect out of everyone, and jurors
can assess this kind of standard without getting inside the defendant’s
mind. Subjective standards, by contrast, are far more difficult to apply.
For example, the defendant may claim that he was trying his hardest,
but he has plenty of reasons to lie. Only he knows what was going on
inside his head.
ABILITY AND DISABILITY
z
z Another complication with the traditional approach is whether the
objective standard courts apply is universal. Is the reasonable-person
standard a single standard that applies to everyone, or does the standard
change to account for a defendant’s individual characteristics? This
turns out to be a somewhat complicated area, and the choices made are
not always consistent or easily explained.
z
z As a general rule, the law will account for physical disabilities. As one
leading treatise notes, “A shorter person or an unsighted person is not
expected to see and avoid dangers that could be perceived by a taller or
sighted person.” Similarly, a driver who suddenly becomes incapacitated
by a heart attack or a seizure is not expected to behave as a person not
suffering from those conditions.
Lecture 3- Reasonable Care and the Reasonable Person
301
z
z Note, however, that such individualization does not mean that
a person suffering from a disability can do whatever he or she wants.
A reasonable blind person will take special precautions when crossing
an intersection. If a blind defendant fails to do so, she will be found
negligent. A person with a history of sudden seizures might reasonably
choose not to drive a car. So while a defendant who suffered a seizure
for the first time might have no liability, one with a continuing medical
issue might be held responsible.
z
z Tort law tends to be far more skeptical about mental or psychological
impairments. In fact, this skepticism against nonphysical impairments
extends all the way to insanity. Although there are some limited
exceptions, the general rule is that the insane are still liable for
their torts.
z
z Some people accuse the legal system of holding an antiquated view
that physical impairments are somehow more legitimate than mental
ones. There is a more charitable interpretation, however: At its core,
negligence is about the defendant’s judgment, and it can be difficult
to determine whether the defendant’s dangerous actions are caused
by a moral failing or a mental disability. This isn’t a problem when
individualizing for a person’s height, for example.
z
z What
about
the
other
d irect ion,
where
t
h
e
Torts
302
defendant has enhanced abilities, or a certain expertise? Just from the
standpoint of common sense, you would expect that the law would
require an expert to demonstrate greater care than the average person.
If you are an orthopedist treating someone’s broken ankle, surely
society would expect you to apply your full expertise. It’d be downright
silly to hold you to the standard of a layperson.
z
z Consistent with this common-sense approach, a defendant’s specialized
skills and knowledge are indeed taken into account to determine whether
he behaved as a reasonable person. A lay defendant helping a friend
with a broken ankle is expected to exercise only the understanding
of a reasonable layperson; an orthopedist, however, is expected to use
the skills and knowledge earned through years of experience.
Lecture 3- Reasonable Care and the Reasonable Person
303
INFANCY AND AGEDNESS
z
z With respect to age, the law does adjust the reasonable-person
standard-at least for infancy. But why? Is it that the law cherishes
the young more than the elderly? One could argue that recognizing
infancy but not agedness in adjusting the reasonable-person standard
is precisely backward from the law’s position on disability. The reduced
judgment of an infant seems similar to a mental disability. Agedness, by
contrast, gives rise to physical disabilities.
z
z Perhaps it appears a bit backward in the abstract, but the rule may
make a bit more sense when put into practice. Infancy does arguably
impair judgment, and is thus more like a mental disability. But infancy is
also easily categorized. Seven-year-olds are quite different from 12-yearolds, for example. And while there is always a spectrum, 12-year-olds
are more like each other than like seven-year-olds. So infancy is easy
to administer.
z
z Additionally, torts involving a child’s negligence often involve some
advanced warning. Children at play are seen-as when you drive
through a residential neighborhood or near a playground. The
expectation is that adult drivers will adjust their level of care to account
for wayward children.
Torts
304
z
z The effects of advanced age are far less uniform. The reasonable
77-year-old is not very well defined. Besides, rather than using age
as a poor proxy, we can directly individualize for an elderly defendant
based on his specific physical disabilities.
z
z Approximately half of U.S. jurisdictions have developed an exception
for children who are engaged in adult activities-driving a car, for
example. In these jurisdictions, if the child participates in an adult
activity, the normal adult standard will apply. What constitutes an
adult activity? That’s where things get a little complicated.
z
z There are some obvious childlike activities, like running, throwing
balls, and riding bicycles (although adults sometimes do those things
too). There are also obvious adult activities, like driving a car, or
operating heavy machinery. But then there are the tricky activities
in the middle. What about operating a Jet Ski, for example? It’s
certainly a motorized vehicle, but it’s still primarily recreational.
z
z Some courts have tried to construct principles for defining an adult
activity. Often these principles involve the dangerousness of the activity,
whether it is motorized, or whether it requires a license. But these
principles do not necessarily explain all the funny distinctions made.
Case law indicates that driving a golf cart is not an adult activity, for
example, but driving a speedboat is.
Whether something seems like an
appropriate activity for children
would appear to depend a lot
on a person’s geographic
region, socioeconomic class,
and upbringing.
Lecture 3- Reasonable Care and the Reasonable Person
305
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
z
z If you think the reasonable-person standard is too vague, or too
dependent on intuition, a hypothetical cost-benefit formulation may
be instructive and more appealing. This model comes from the lawand-economics movement, an attempt by some scholars to explain
legal rules using economic principles. From an economic perspective,
the reasonable person will take safety precautions as long as the cost of
those precautions justify the benefits.
z
z This is all well and good as a theoretical matter. In practice, however,
the average person quickly becomes uncomfortable with this kind of
analysis. Putting a dollar figure on injuries is not only difficult, but may
also seem disturbing or even downright offensive.
z
z Thus we’re left between a rock and a hard place. To give the reasonableperson standard some rigor and predictability, we can tie it to costbenefit analysis. And in practice, people do this kind of calculation
all the time, whether formally or informally. If you make the tradeoff
explicit, however, in some cases people may balk.
Torts
306
Suggested Reading
<
< Abraham, The Forms and Functions of Tort Law.
<
< American Law Institute, Restatement
(Third) of Torts.
<
< Bolton v. Stone.
<
< Dobbs, The Law of Torts.
<
< Grimshaw v. Ford Motor Co.
<
< Roberts v. Ring.
<
< Robinson, Criminal Law.
<
< U.S. v. Carroll Towing Co.
<
< Vaughan v. Menlove.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ In October 2010, The New York Times wrote about two
four-year-olds who collided with an 87-year-old woman
while racing their bikes down a Manhattan sidewalk. The
victim broke her hip and subsequently died. Should the
children be held liable, and if so, under what standard?
What are the best arguments on both sides?
Þ
Þ Should cost-benefit analysis inform (or indeed, replace)
a jury’s application of the reasonable-person standard?
Do you agree with those that find Ford’s behavior with
the Pinto despicable? If you reject cost-benefit analysis,
what sort of analysis is more appropriate?
307
Lecture 4
RULES VERSUS
STANDARDS OF CARE
T
he alternative to a flexible, case-specific standard is what lawyers
call a rule. Rules come from a variety of sources, including
judges, legislatures, and industry practices. Substituting a rule for
a standard-tort law’s reasonable-person standard, for example-comes
with both advantages and disadvantages. In all cases, however, rules serve
to take power and discretion away from the jury.
Torts
308
LEGISLATIVE ACTION
z
z Rules offer an alternative to flexible, case-by-case legal standards. But
where do we find the content for the rules themselves? One source is
the legislature. To being with, the legislature has the authority simply
to supplant-that is, replace entirely-traditional tort law, including the
reasonable-person standard applicable in many tort cases.
z
z Recall that tort law traditionally evolves through the common law
process. Under the common law, judges develop the law through the
cases they decide. If the legislature doesn’t like the common law rules,
however, it can replace them by passing statutes and regulations to
that effect.
z
z One familiar context for legislatively created tort claims is employment
discrimination. Under the common law of torts, there is no claim
based on employment discrimination. The passage of the federal Civil
Rights Act, however, created just that-an entirely new tort claim for
employment discrimination. This means that when plaintiffs file
employment discrimination suits, it is the Civil Rights Act-and not
the common law-that they’re invoking.
NEGLIGENCE PER SE
z
z Another way that legislatures influence tort law is through something
known as negligence per se. Negligence per se is a legal doctrine that
directly affects the reasonable-person standard, while still operating
within the confines of the common law.
z
z Consider Martin v. Herzog, a case decided in 1920 by New York Court
of Appeals judge-and future U.S. Supreme Court justice-Benjamin
Cardozo. As in many tort cases, the facts of Martin v. Herzog begin
with an automobile accident. The plaintiff and her husband had been
driving at night when their car, which had no lights, was struck by
a car driven by the defendant. The plaintiff was injured; her husband
was killed.
Lecture 4- Rules versus Standards of Care
309
z
z The plaintiff sued for damages, alleging negligence on the part of the
defendant. The defendant asserted that the absence of lights on the
plaintiff’s car was evidence of contributory negligence-i.e., that the
plaintiff was partly to blame for the accident, and should therefore be
barred from recovering damages.
z
z Cardozo agreed, but took things one step further: He wrote that because
there was a statute requiring the use of headlights, the plaintiff’s
failure to have headlights was not merely evidence of negligence, but
rather negligence in itself. And that’s precisely the meaning of the
term “negligence per se.” In Cardozo’s view, the statute passed by the
legislature obviated the need for an individualized decision by the jury.
z
z Note that Martin v. Herzog still involves common law negligence. The
legislature didn’t create a new, separate tort claim for driving without
headlights. It didn’t say that someone violating the statute could be
sued for damages. It just required that people use headlights.
Torts
310
z
z But if no new tort claim has been created, how has the legislature
influenced tort law? The main question is still what a reasonable person
would do. And according to Cardozo, a reasonable person obeys the
law. Because it is unreasonable to defy the legislature, the regulation has
now displaced the jury’s judgment.
z
z Negligence per se effectively replaces a standard with a rule. Under the
reasonable-person standard, the jury decides on a case-by-case basis
whether particular actions are reasonable. Under negligence per se,
by contrast, a regulation defines what is reasonable. This regulation
provides the notice, uniformity, and predictability that rules provide.
INDUSTRY CUSTOM
z
z Another way tort law can create greater predictability and uniformity
is for courts to focus on custom-specifically, the regular or typical
practices of an industry or field-to determine the standard of care.
z
z Assuming that an industry custom exists, it’s going to be much more
rule-like than the reasonable-person standard. Customs are consistently
observed, so defendants have ample notice. Customs are also stable,
and don’t fluctuate with the whim of a jury. So if you think about it,
focusing on custom takes discretionary power away from the jury and
gives it to the relevant industry or profession.
z
z Industry custom plays a very limited
role in torts, however. To understand
why, let’s consider a classic case
from
the
1930s.
Commonly
known to as The T.J. Hooper,
the case was decided by a judge
named Learned Hand, a brilliant
and
influential
jurist
with
a prominent place in the history of
American law.
Lecture 4- Rules versus Standards of Care
311
z
z The facts of The T.J. Hooper begin with a tugboat towing a coal-laden
barge up the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. In the age before satellites
and modern communications, ships were always at risk of unexpected
storms and hurricanes. And as you might imagine, an ungainly barge
filled with coal does not do well in rough seas.
z
z Just emerging on the market at the time were radios. These radios
allowed tugboat pilots to hear twice-daily weather reports, obviously an
important source of information and warning. Radios, however, were
not yet in widespread use. They were curiosities that were, as Judge
Hand described them, “partly a toy,” and they were typically owned
personally by the tugboat pilots.
z
z The tugboat T.J. Hooper did not have a working radio. During a storm
off the coast of New Jersey, the shipment of coal was lost. The owner of
the coal barge sued, arguing that the loss was the result of negligence
on the part of the tugboat company. If the boat had been equipped
with a working radio, the plaintiff argued, the shipment of coal would
surely have been saved.
z
z The question facing Learned Hand and the court was what to make of
the industry custom-or in this case, the lack of custom-regarding
the provision of radios. Judge Hand famously reasoned: “In most
cases, reasonable prudence is in fact common prudence; but strictly it
is never its measure.” In other words, the reasonable-person standard
and custom often coincide, but custom is not dispositive of what the
reasonable person will do.
z
z The judge continued, writing that “a whole calling may have unduly
lagged in the adoption of new and available devices. It never may set its
own tests, however persuasive be its usages.” In other words, it doesn’t
matter that most ships hadn’t yet adopted radio technology; given the
obvious benefits of the technology, the tugboat company should still
have adopted it regardless of the custom in the industry.
Torts
312
z
z Learned Hand’s opinion in The T.J. Hooper pretty much gutted the
power of custom arguments in negligence cases. Yes, custom can be
evidence of negligence or nonnegligence, but it is never the standard
itself. Instead, juries are left to apply the reasonable-person standard
independently.
z
z The primary justification for the decision in The T.J. Hooper is the
rather obvious one given by Learned Hand: It’s foolish to trust industry
to self-regulate. Just because tugboat operators don’t provide radios to
their pilots doesn’t mean that’s the optimal rule. After all, radios are
expensive, and if the tugboat companies are not liable for storms, they
have no incentive to improve safety.
z
z Professor Richard Epstein challenges the wisdom of The T.J. Hooper,
drawing a distinction between consensual activities and strangers.
Epstein argues that when the parties agree to an activity, they have an
implicit understanding about the expected level of care. Whatever the
custom is, it is effectively subsumed into the contract.
z
z In The T.J. Hooper, the owner of the coal barge knew the situation with
the radios, but went forward with the deal anyway. If the T.J. Hooper’s
lack of a radio had bothered him, he could have gone with a different
tugboat operator-and in fact, there was a company at the time that
provided radios to all its pilots.
z
z Where custom does not work, however, is in interactions between
strangers. If a pedestrian is hit by a delivery truck backing up, he won’t
care that the industry custom is not to have backup cameras. He hasn’t
agreed to anything, and he certainly never agreed to let the delivery
company decide what constitutes reasonable care. He will want a jury
to decide whether it’s reasonable not to have backup cameras.
z
z The major exception to the rule in The T.J. Hooper is medical
malpractice. In medical malpractice cases, custom rules. Depending
on the jurisdiction, malpractice cases involving other types of
professionals-attorneys, for example, or accountants-may also treat
custom as dispositive.
Lecture 4- Rules versus Standards of Care
313
z
z The best explanation for why doctors are treated differently has to do
with professional expertise. Because medicine is highly specialized and
technical, it’s very difficult for a lay jury to determine what a reasonable
person would do during heart surgery or a kidney transplant. Deferring
to the medical profession takes advantage of its overall expertise, while
also providing uniformity and predictability.
z
z This explanation is not without its flaws, however. There are other
fields-computer programming, for example, or complex engineering
design-where the jury also lacks expertise, and those fields don’t get
the benefit of a custom rule. And there are some types of medical care
for which juries are perfectly capable of understanding the tradeoffs
involved. Collusion is also a concern, as doctors may be inclined to
protect their colleagues from scrutiny.
Torts
314
Suggested Reading
<
< Helling v. Carey.
<
< Kaufman, Cardozo.
<
< Martin v. Herzog.
<
< Polenburg, The World of Benjamin Cardozo.
<
< State v. Stanko.
<
< The T.J. Hooper v. N. Barge Corp.
<
< Vaughan v. Menlove.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should we abandon industry custom in medical
malpractice cases in favor of the reasonable-person
standard, and if so, why?
Þ
Þ In the case Tedla v. Ellman, the plaintiffs were hit by a car
while walking along a highway. At the time, a statute
required that pedestrians walk facing (against) traffic.
The plaintiffs, however, had been walking with traffic,
because there were far fewer cars on that side of the road.
The jury found that the defendant driver was negligent.
Should negligence per se have applied in deciding the
issue of the plaintiffs’ contributory negligence? How
does this fact pattern fit into the debate over rules
versus standards?
315
Lecture 5
THE COMPLEXITIES OF
FACTUAL CAUSATION
T
his lecture examines causation, focusing in particular on the concept
of factual or scientific causation. While more empirically based and
perhaps more susceptible to analytical scrutiny than other areas
of tort law, factual causation still requires value judgments to be made in
difficult cases. When that happens, reasonable people often disagree.
CAUSATION BASICS
z
z In order to recover on a tort claim, a plaintiff must show that the
defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of reasonable care, that the
defendant breached this duty, and that this breach of duty caused the
plaintiff’s harms or damages. With respect to causation, there are two
distinct parts of the inquiry. The first of these is factual causation, also
known as but-for causation.
z
z Factual causation is essentially a scientific inquiry. It asks whether
the defendant contributed in some empirical way to the plaintiff’s
injury. The question usually asked to determine factual causation is
whether the plaintiff’s injury would have occurred in the absence of the
defendant’s allegedly negligent conduct.
z
z The second part of the inquiry into causation is legal causation,
traditionally referred to as proximate cause. This is not a scientific
inquiry, but rather a moral one: When are the defendant’s actions
sufficiently close to the plaintiff’s injury that it is fair to hold the
defendant accountable? Causal chains can be extremely long; legal
causation asks where we should cut them.
Torts
316
z
z As described in a famous torts case, causal chains are like ripples
in a pond. When you drop a rock in a pond, ripples emanate in all
directions, changing the character of the pond in all directions forever.
But it would be absurd to say that everything that happens in that
pond forever after was caused by the rock. Similarly, a person is not
responsible for every event that occurs after he takes a particular action,
no matter how unreasonable that action may be.
DAUBERT V. MERRELL DOW PHARMACEUTICALS
z
z In ordinary tort cases, factual causation is fairly straightforward. The
defendant leaves ice on his sidewalk; the plaintiff slips on the ice and
breaks her leg. The defendant texts while driving and crashes his car
into the plaintiff. But there are certain types of cases where factual
causation is not so straightforward. Big-money toxic tort claims,
often involving drug manufacturers and a host of plaintiffs, fall into
this category.
z
z In 1993, the U.S. Supreme Court decided Daubert v. Merrell Dow
Pharmaceuticals, arguably the most important case in modern tort
law. Daubert was a case about a drug called Bendectin, a seemingly
innocuous combination of B vitamins and an antihistamine that was
used to treat severe morning sickness-also known as hyperemesis-in
pregnant women.
Lecture 5- The Complexities of Factual Causation
317
z
z At issue in Daubert was whether Bendectin caused birth defects.
Women who had taken Bendectin had babies born with birth defects,
and the question that bedeviled courts was whether the women
and their children were simply unlucky, or whether Bendectin was
actually a teratogen, meaning a substance that increases the risk of
birth defects.
z
z The importance of Daubert rests not in the rather specialized dispute
about Bendectin and birth defects, but in what that dispute represented.
For one thing, it represented modern, big-time, bet-the-company tort
litigation involving hundreds of millions and sometimes billions of
dollars. Many cases of this type are massive products-liability cases
involving pharmaceuticals or chemicals, like Bendectin, and an
enormous number of potential plaintiffs.
z
z Like many products-liability cases, Daubert involved tricky questions
of causation, which meant that expert testimony was required. How
can we know whether Bendectin causes birth defects? We have to rely
on testimony from doctors and other medical experts. Whether those
experts-who are paid by the parties-can reliably establish causal
connections thus becomes the linchpin of the entire litigation.
z
z The defendant in the case, Merrell Dow, offered compelling evidence
suggesting that Bendectin was not associated with an increased risk of
birth defects: epidemiological studies that compared women who had
taken Bendectin with women who had not. Merrell Dow ultimately
won the case; today, the scientific consensus-based on those same
epidemiological
studies-is that
Bendectin does
not cause
birth defects.
Torts
318
INDETERMINATE CAUSES
z
z Toxic torts are not the only area of tort law in which complex questions
about factual causation lurk. Another difficult category involves
what are referred to as indeterminate causes. In indeterminate-cause
cases, the question of factual causation is often more philosophical
than scientific.
z
z The classic case of indeterminate cause is Kingston v. Chicago &
Northwest Railway, decided by the Wisconsin Supreme Court
back in 1927. In Kingston, there were two fires. One started to the
northwest of the plaintiff’s property and was of unknown origin.
The other started to the northeast of the plaintiff’s property and
was caused by the defendant’s train. The two fires combined as they
approached the plaintiff’s property, and the combined fire reduced the
property to cinders.
z
z The puzzling aspect of factual causation in Kingston is that both fires
were sufficient causes. Either fire, acting alone, was fully capable of
spreading south and burning down the plaintiff’s property. But here’s
the kicker: Because both fires are sufficient causes, neither fire is a butfor cause. Under the traditional definition, then, neither fire would be
considered a factual cause of the plaintiff’s loss.
z
z Under the conventional but-for causation requirement, the plaintiff
loses. But that result clearly violates our sense of justice. At least
one defendant, and perhaps two, started a fire that could have
independently burned down the plaintiff’s property. The plaintiff’s
house was destroyed by fire. It doesn’t seem right that he wouldn’t be
able to recover his losses in court.
z
z The Wisconsin Supreme Court must have felt a similar sense of
injustice. In deciding Kingston, the court drew an important distinction
between two possible scenarios. The first is when two fires both have
human origins. In those cases, even though the conventional but-for
causation requirement suggests that the plaintiff should lose, the court
held that both defendants were jointly and severally liable.
Lecture 5- The Complexities of Factual Causation
319
z
z The idea of joint and several liability has a number of variations, but
basically it means that the two defendants split the damages awarded
to the plaintiff. If one of the defendants is bankrupt or cannot be
found, the other defendant has to pay the whole amount. The idea here
is that between the available defendant and the plaintiff, the available
defendant is the more blameworthy and should eat the cost of the
missing defendant.
z
z Whether you like the idea of joint and several liability or not, the result
in Kingston, at least with respect to the first scenario, is pretty sensible;
tort law doesn’t hew slavishly to the but-for causation requirement,
and instead does the practical thing. Two equally culpable defendants?
Can’t figure out which one analytically caused the damage? Let them
share the liability.
z
z The curious result in Kingston is what the Wisconsin Supreme Court
said about the second scenario. The second scenario is when one fire
has human origins, and the other was the result of natural causes, like
lightning. There, the legal rule is no liability.
Torts
320
z
z Viewed in isolation, this result also makes some sense. If the plaintiff’s
property would have burned down as a result of the natural fire
anyway, then there is no reason for the plaintiff to be able to sue the
defendant. Viewed in context, however, the result is quite odd. It means
that whether the defendant railroad in Kingston is liable depends
entirely on chance. If the second fire was caused by a human actor, the
railroad is liable. If the second fire was caused by lightning, the railroad
pays nothing. In other words, the defendant’s liability is completely
unrelated to its behavior.
z
z If you think a bit more about this, it may seem less strange that so much
rests on the element of luck. People do negligent things all the timethey text while driving, they speed, they defer maintenance and repairs.
If no accident occurs, the negligent parties have gotten lucky, and there
is no liability. As in Kingston, serendipity plays a major role.
Suggested Reading
<
< Berger, Eliminating General Causation.
<
< Byrne v. Boadle.
<
< Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc.
<
< Kingston v. Chi. & N.W. Ry.
<
< Martin v. Herzog.
<
< Palsgraf v. Long Island R.R. Co.
<
< Summers v. Tice.
<
< Wood, Bird Hunting Etiquette.
<
< Zuchowicz v. U.S.
Lecture 5- The Complexities of Factual Causation
321
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ General causation is a formidable hurdle for plaintiffs
in toxic tort litigation, particularly with regard to
relatively rare reactions or side effects. The large-scale
epidemiological studies needed to establish causation
are time-consuming and expensive, and thus typically
unavailable. Professor Margaret Berger has proposed
doing away with the general-causation requirement and
focusing instead on a manufacturer’s failure to test. Her
proposal parallels the Zuchowicz decision, in the sense
that it emphasizes breach and minimizes causation. What
are the advantages and disadvantages of such a proposal?
What situations might justify taking the approach
suggested by Professor Berger?
Þ
Þ In Byrne v. Boadle, a classic case decided by an English
court in 1863, the plaintiff was hit from above by
a falling barrel of flour. But he was unable to provide any
evidence of negligence-i.e., evidence of a breach. Under
the traditional requirements for a negligence claim, the
plaintiff should have lost. Instead, the court invoked the
doctrine of res ipsa loquitur (“the thing speaks for itself”)
to allow the jury to infer negligence from the mere fact
that the accident occurred at all. Does this seem like
the correct result? How is res ipsa loquitur similar to
the doctrines courts use to resolve questions of factual
causation? How is it different?
322
Lecture 6
LEGAL CAUSATION
AND FORESEEABILITY
T
his lecture examines legal causation, also known as proximate cause.
Unlike factual causation, legal causation has very little to do with
causation in a scientific or physical sense. Legal causation is about
policy, justice, and moral responsibility; in difficult cases, factfinders often
have to rely on their own instincts about what is and isn’t fair.
BREAKING THE CHAIN
z
z Factual causes, also known as but-for causes, form chains that are
infinitely long and that extend in all directions. At some point, we have
to decide where to break these chains; otherwise, we would never be
able to assign liability to a particular party. Mrs. O’Leary and her cow
may have started the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, but it seems intuitively
wrong to hold her liable to the entire city of Chicago.
Lecture 6- Legal Causation and Foreseeability
323
z
z Over the years, courts have developed a number of principles and
approaches to help rationalize what is arguably a gut reaction regarding
what the defendant should be responsible for. In the end, despite the
courts’ best efforts-and perhaps because legal causation is ultimately
about gut reactions-these questions are often left to juries.
z
z As with factual causation, legal causation is typically fairly
straightforward. If the defendant negligently runs a red light and hits
the plaintiff, the defendant is clearly both the factual and legal cause of
the accident. When causation questions get complicated, however, they
tend to do so in bizarre, seemingly fantastical ways. Legal causation is
at issue in many of the most memorable tort cases, and these cases have
become favorites of many law professors.
z
z A natural place to break the chain of causation is wherever some person,
someone exercising autonomy and free will, inserts himself into the
chain. This person is often described as an intervening or superseding
cause. This approach is not without its weaknesses, however.
z
z Some intervening causes involve people acting maliciously, but
many others do not. For example, a person otherwise identified as
the intervening cause of the plaintiff’s injury might have been acting
reflexively, based entirely on instinct. Would it be fair to hold this
person responsible for actions he can’t control?
FORESEEABILITY
z
z One helpful modification to this intervening-case inquiry is to consider
whether the injury to the plaintiff was a foreseeable result of the
defendant’s actions. Under this approach, if the intervening cause is not
foreseeable, the causal chain is broken and the defendant is not liable. If
the intervening cause is foreseeable, however, the chain remains intact
and the defendant is on the hook.
Torts
324
z
z The foreseeability test also works well in defining legal causation
outside the realm of intervening causes. One such area involves what
are called harms not within the risk. The basic problem in this group
of cases is this: Normally, a defendant’s actions are negligent because
they impose some kind of unreasonable risk. But what happens if some
other kind of harm materializes? Should the defendant still be liable?
z
z In a 1961 case typically referred to as Wagon Mound, an English court
answered this question in the negative. It held that a defendant is only
liable for foreseeable harms of his negligence. In Wagon Mound, the
defendant negligently discharged oil from a ship into Sydney Harbor,
causing an oil slick that spread to the plaintiff’s wharf.
Lecture 6- Legal Causation and Foreseeability
325
z
z Ordinarily, the expected harm from an oil spill is pollution. And that is
what happened, at least at first. A few days after the spill, however, one
of the plaintiff’s employees was welding when sparks that ordinarily
would have fallen harmlessly into the water instead lit some rag or
cotton waste that was floating on the surface. The rag ignited, the heat
was sufficient to light the oil slick on fire, and the resulting inferno
destroyed the entire wharf.
z
z Now, the discharge of the oil was indeed negligent, but the fire was
not foreseen. Following the foreseeability rule, the court held that
the defendant was not the legal cause of the fire. The defendant was
therefore not liable.
Torts
326
z
z Another memorable harm-not-within-the-risk case is Madsen v. East
Jordan Irrigation, decided by the Utah Supreme Court in 1942. In
Madsen, the plaintiff owned a mink farm. The defendant was using
dynamite to blast an irrigation ditch nearby.
z
z In tort law, blasting is considered an ultrahazardous activity.
As a result, a defendant who is blasting typically is not governed
by a negligence standard. Instead, he is subject to strict liability-that
is, he is liable for all harms caused by his blasting whether or not he
behaved in a negligent manner.
z
z So what happened in Madsen? Did the defendant blast rocks onto
the plaintiff’s mink farm, crushing the minks? Of course not. What
happened was that the noise from the blasting caused the mother
minks to freak out and eat their young. The loss of these baby minks
constituted a significant economic harm to the business.
z
z The court in Madsen held
that the defendant was
not liable, even though
blasting is ordinarily an
activity subject to strict
liability. The risks that
make the defendant’s
actions ultrahazardous
are the usual risks of
blasting-vibration,
concussion,
flying
objects-not minks
eating their young.
Since the harm was
not foreseeable, the
plaintiff was not able
to recover damages.
Lecture 6- Legal Causation and Foreseeability
327
THE LIMITS OF FORESEEABILITY
z
z In modern cases, foreseeability is the dominant factor in determining
legal causation. The factual chain of causation may be infinitely
long, but we are judged-and held liable for-only those harms that
are a foreseeable consequence of our actions. It is important to note,
however, that not all types of unforeseeability are created equal.
z
z So far, we have dealt largely with cases in which the harm, or the
mechanism causing the harm, is of a wholly different kind. In these
weird cases, the rule is of course that the defendant is not liable. But tort
law imposes a different rule when the unforeseen harm is not different
in kind, but rather different in degree. Just because the level of harm
was unforeseen does not mean that the defendant will not be liable.
z
z Suppose the defendant negligently sets fire to the plaintiff’s home and it
burns down. Under the conventional rules on damages, the defendant
must make the plaintiff whole. If it’s a shack, the defendant must pay
for a shack. If it’s a mansion, the defendant must pay for a mansion.
If the plaintiff’s ordinary home unexpectedly happens to have a $100
million Rembrandt in the living room, then the defendant must pay for
both the house and the Rembrandt. The painting is surely unforeseen,
but that sort of unforeseeability has no effect on liability.
z
z In torts, this rule is often referred to as the thin-skull rule, or the
eggshell-skull rule, for reasons that you might surmise. You negligently
cause a minor accident. An ordinary victim would bump her head,
get up, and walk away. Unluckily for you, however, your victim has
an eggshell skull; the accident causes massive head trauma and death.
Under the eggshell-skull rule, you are liable for all the damages caused.
z
z The eggshell skull might seem a fantastical hypothetical dreamed up by
law professors, but reality sometimes imitates fiction. In the celebrated
case of Vosburg v. Putney, decided by the Wisconsin Supreme Court in
1891, the defendant, who was 11 years old, gently kicked the plaintiff,
who was 14 years old, in the leg. The expected reaction might be a slight
wince, with or without a retaliatory kick or punch, perhaps.
Torts
328
z
z Unfortunately, and unbeknownst to anyone at the time, the plaintiff’s
leg was catastrophically compromised. The defendant’s tap somehow
caused the plaintiff to experience a sudden and violent pain. The leg
became infected, and the plaintiff soon lost the use of his leg entirely.
The medical testimony in the case suggested some nonsense about the
touch activating microbes. Regardless, the defendant was found liable
for battery-committing an unlawful touching-and had to pay the
entire amount of damages.
PALSGRAF V. LONG ISLAND RAILROAD
z
z The most famous case-not just in the
area of causation, but in all of tortsis a case called Palsgraf v. Long Island
Railroad. Decided by future Supreme
Court justice Benjamin Cardozo
in 1928, Palsgraf is easily the most
complicated case in the torts canon.
z
z The case begins with the plaintiff,
Helen Palsgraf, standing on a New York
train platform. Elsewhere in the station, two
men are running to catch another train departing
the station. This was in 1924, a time when passengers could still literally
run to catch a train as it departed. And this is precisely what the two
men tried to do.
z
z One of the two men jumps onto the train easily. The other jumps
somewhat unsteadily, and is about to fall. A guard on the train holds
the door open and extends his hand. From the platform, another
guard tries to help by pushing the teetering man onto the train. This
is certainly dangerous and negligent behavior, both from the passenger
and from the guards.
Lecture 6- Legal Causation and Foreseeability
329
z
z But the story of Palsgraf isn’t that the teetering passenger fell and got hit
by the train. That would be a little too straightforward. What happens
instead is that the jostling and pushing causes the man to drop a small
package he was carrying-a package that just happens to be filled
with fireworks. The fireworks fall onto the tracks, where they do what
fireworks do. They explode.
z
z So far, the events on the train have nothing to do with Mrs. Palsgraf.
She’s standing far away, on the other side of the platform. Soon,
however, the exploding fireworks send a shock wave in her direction.
The shock wave shakes loose a set of scales, which then fall over onto
Mrs. Palsgraf, injuring her.
Torts
330
z
z Should Mrs. Palsgraf be able to sue the Long Island Railroad for
negligence? For Cardozo, writing for the majority, the answer was no.
Foreshadowing the importance of foreseeability, Cardozo wrote that
negligence is a relational concept. The question is not whether the
defendant was negligent writ large, but rather whether the defendant
was negligent with respect to the plaintiff. Because Mrs. Palsgraf
was not a foreseeable plaintiff with respect to the guards’ actions, the
railroad owed her no duty of care.
Suggested Reading
<
< American Law Institute, Restatement (Third)
of Torts.
<
< City of Lincoln.
<
< Gorris v. Scott.
<
< In re Polemis & Furness, Withy & Co. Ltd.
<
< Kline v. 1500 Mass. Ave. Apartment Corp.
<
< Madsen v. E. Jordan Irr. Co.
<
< Noonan, The Passengers of Palsgraf.
<
< Overseas Tankship (U.K.) Ltd. v. Morts Dock &
Eng’g. Co. Ltd.
<
< Palsgraf v. Long Island R.R. Co.
<
< Ryan v. N.Y. Ctr. R.R.
<
< Vosburg v. Putney.
<
< Wagner v. Int’l. Ry. Co.
Lecture 6- Legal Causation and Foreseeability
331
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Consider
the
famous
nitroglycerin
hypothetical
originally posed by Professor Warren Seavey: A man
negligently leaves a 10-pound container of nitroglycerin
on a table. A child knocks the container off the table, but
miraculously, it does not explode. The container does
land on the child’s foot, however, injuring him. Can
the child sue the man for damages? What are the best
arguments for both sides?
Þ
Þ Which test of legal causation do you find more compelling:
the directness test in Polemis, or the foreseeability test in
the Wagon Mound case? In answering this question, you
may find it useful to think about the debate between strict
liability and negligence. Which rule would advocates of
strict liability prefer? What about those who argue that
the traditional negligence standard should apply?
332
Lecture 7
LIABILITY FOR THE
ACTS OF OTHERS
T
his lecture examines two related theories of liability in tort law. The
first, known as vicarious liability, concerns the circumstances under
which someone can be held liable for another person’s wrongdoing.
The second, called joint and several liability, divides or shifts liability when
several parties are sued for a tort they committed together.
Lecture 7- Liability for the Acts of Others
333
VICARIOUS LIABILITY
z
z Vicarious liability is sometimes referred to as respondeat superior,
which is Latin for “let the master answer.” It is a tort doctrine that states
that an employer is strictly liable for torts committed by its employees
during the scope of their employment. The employer itself does not
need to be negligent or at fault; as long as the employee commits a tort,
the employer will be liable.
z
z Many areas of tort law are controversial. Different courts in different
jurisdictions have different rules, and there are debates about which
rules are better. But this notion of vicarious liability-of an employer
being strictly liable for the torts of its employees-is almost universal.
z
z Consider how vicarious liability fits into our cultural mindset about
responsibility. If there’s a foreign object in your pizza, clearly someone
should be liable. But who? The specific person who packed the
ingredients at the processing plant? The worker who made the pizza
in the kitchen? The most likely defendant in a lawsuit would not
be one of these individuals, but rather the pizza company itself.
z
z This is a very natural way of thinking, and it explains
why vicarious liability is almost universally recognized.
The doctrine remains good law in legal systems
around the world with roots in the English common
law, including England, Australia, Canada, all 50
U.S. states, and the District of Columbia. Similar
doctrines are on the books in France and Germany.
z
z As you might suspect, vicarious liability as an idea
is also not modern. Although its precise historical
roots are more controversial, some scholars have
suggested that it is derived from Roman law
or ideas about masters and servants from the
medieval period.
Torts
334
z
z Most everyone agrees that the modern vicarious liability doctrine
originated in a set of English decisions during the late 17th and early 18th
century. By the end of the 18th century-in other words, the time of the
founding of the United States-vicarious liability was well established
and fully in force.
z
z One reason to have vicarious liability is an evidentiary one. Vicarious
liability protects victims from the actions of companies where the
corporate source of the harm is clear, but the specific employee
perpetrator is not. In the modern world, we place a lot of our trust
in the processes and procedures of companies and their brands,
not their individual employees, and so it seems fair to hold the
companies accountable.
z
z Another reason is cost internalization. During the course of
a company’s operations, the company will inevitably cause losses and
damages to some parties. Cost internalization says that the company
should internalize-that is, absorb-those costs. The company will
thus have incentives to make the proper tradeoffs about quality
control, inspections, and the like.
Lecture 7- Liability for the Acts of Others
335
z
z Similarly, a company is able to spread these freakish or chance losses
around. It can, for example, charge more for its products or services to
cover the cost of potential liability, either directly or through insurance.
From a purely compensatory angle, the company has deep pockets,
and is thus better positioned to help those who suffer as a result of
employee misconduct.
SCOPE OF EMPLOYMENT
z
z The real difficulty over vicarious liability is not whether it should exist
in some form. What is controversial are the conditions under which it
should apply-in other words, its scope. To explore this, let’s think about
the different vicarious liability rules we might impose on employers.
z
z The most restrictive rule would be to make employers liable only if they
expressly authorized or encouraged the employee’s tort-if, for example,
the CEO of a pizza-delivery company tells an employee to overcharge
credit cards, or to sabotage a competitor’s delivery vans. This behavior
looks a lot like an intentional tort.
z
z Requiring intent, however, seems a bit limited, because you can imagine
other bad behavior that is not intentional but still blameworthy. For
example, say our pizza delivery company tells its employees to obey
traffic laws, but imposes unrealistic delivery times and penalizes
drivers for arriving late. Their drivers, trying to stay on schedule,
end up driving like maniacs. At some point, one of them will get into
a bad accident.
z
z In the situation just described, the employer hasn’t authorized or
encouraged the tort, but it is still arguably at fault. The pizza company
has created unreasonable expectations that promote speeding and
reckless driving. One could therefore say that the company has behaved
negligently. The same conclusion could be drawn if the company hires
delivery drivers without checking their driving history, and one of
them mows down a pedestrian on the sidewalk.
Torts
336
z
z Vicarious liability is strict liability for the employer, not a negligence
rule, and thus requires some additional nuance. The conventional rule
is that the employer will only be held vicariously liable if the actions
of its employee are within the scope of employment. For example,
the pizza company might argue that speeding is outside the scope of
employment, because company policy prohibits it.
z
z You can easily imagine, however, why the scope of liability can’t be
based merely on company policy. That would basically transform
vicarious liability into a form of intentional tort-liability would follow
only when the company wanted the employee to commit torts.
Lecture 7- Liability for the Acts of Others
337
z
z At the same time, there must be some limit beyond which the employer
will not be held liable. Should the pizza company be held liable if one of
its drivers goes 65 miles an hour down a residential street? What if the
accident takes place while the driver is running a personal errand, or
during an incident of road rage?
z
z One way courts have handled these issues is to ask whether the
employee’s actions-however misguided-were done to further the
employer’s interests. If so, the employer would be vicariously liable. If,
however, the employee was acting only for himself, the employer would
be off the hook. Under this interpretation of scope of employment, it’s
no longer the employer’s perspective that controls, but the employee’s.
z
z Other courts have focused on the foreseeability of the employee’s
conduct, recognizing that foibles and misdeeds by employees come with
the territory of conducting business operations. This approach would
hold an employer liable as long as the employee’s misbehavior is not so
unforeseeable that it would be unfair to attribute it to the employer.
z
z A related doctrine addressing these issues is that of frolic and detour.
Traditionally, the distinction between a frolic and a detour was the
mechanism used to define scope of employment. There are some subtle
differences to the approaches just mentioned, but the driving principle
is the same. The basic rule is that an employer is liable for an employee’s
actions when the employee makes a mere detour, but not when the
employee is on a frolic of his own.
JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY
z
z Joint and several liability deals with cases involving joint tortfeasorsmultiple defendants who commit a single tort together. For example,
the defendants might be part of a business partnership where one of
the partners commits a tort. The law of partnership treats all of the
partners jointly and severally liable for the action of that one partner, as
if each partner is simultaneously the employer and employee of all the
other partners.
Torts
338
z
z Another situation in which joint and several liability will be imposed
is where two defendants who are strangers unwittingly combine to
cause a single tort. For example, one defendant might be texting on
her phone while driving, while at the same time another defendant is
running a red light. If the two collide and then run into a bystander,
both defendants will be jointly and severally liable.
z
z The key concept in joint and several liability is that any one of the
defendants can be sued for the entire amount of the claim. The law has
increasingly relaxed this rule over time, however, forcing defendants to
share the liability in even amounts. In more recent cases, juries have
divided the liability by comparative fault, assigning a percentage of the
plaintiff’s recovery to each defendant.
z
z Where things get hairy is when some of the defendants don’t have the
money to pay their assigned share. Under joint and several liability,
when some defendants are insolvent, the other defendants must
make up the shortfall. For example, if three defendants combine
to commit a tort and two of them are effectively bankrupt, the one
remaining defendant pays in full.
Lecture 7- Liability for the Acts of Others
339
z
z Some critics claim that joint and several liability is one of the places
where tort law runs amok. They argue that it is emblematic of how
the legal system goes after deep pockets, and how rich defendants
are unfairly targeted. But whether joint and several liability is fair is
really a matter of perspective.
z
z Critics of joint and several liability have suggested that payouts from
joint defendants should be treated independently of one another. This
approach is known as plain several liability. If one of the defendants is
bankrupt, that’s just the plaintiff’s tough luck. After all, that’s exactly
what happens in situations where a plaintiff is hit by a single insolvent
driver, with no other potential defendants.
z
z In response, we might ask why the risk of insolvency should be borne
by the plaintiff if there are other defendants involved. The plaintiff is
an entirely blameless victim. Each defendant, on the other hand, was in
some way negligent or otherwise worthy of blame. If someone is going
to bear the risk of insolvency, shouldn’t it be the other defendants? That
is exactly the perspective taken by joint and several liability.
Suggested Reading
<
< Baty, Vicarious Liability.
<
< Giliker, Vicarious Liability in Tort.
<
< Holmes, “Agency.”
<
< Ira S. Bushey & Sons, Inc. v. U.S.
<
< Laski, “The Basis of Vicarious Liability.”
<
< Nelson v. American-West African Line.
<
< White, Tort Law in America.
Torts
340
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Which of the three perspectives on scope of employment
for vicarious liability do you find the most compelling?
Should liability be limited to acts authorized by the
employer, acts done to further the employer’s interests, or
acts that are foreseeable? What kind of incentives is each
rule likely to create?
Þ
Þ There have been reform efforts recently to limit joint and
several liability. Consider the following statute, which the
state of Tennessee enacted in 2013:
If multiple defendants are found liable in a civil action
governed by comparative fault, a defendant shall only
be severally liable for the percentage of damages for
which fault is attributed to such defendant by the trier
of fact, and no defendant shall be held jointly liable
for any damages.
Do you agree with this approach? What advantages and
disadvantages are there to a regime of several liability, as
opposed to joint and several liability?
341
Lecture 8
WHEN TORT PLAINTIFFS
SHARE THE BLAME
T
his lecture examines what happens when a tort plaintiff himself is
at least partly to blame for the injuries on which his lawsuit is based.
You will learn when, and to what extent, a plaintiff’s contributory
negligence will bar him from recovering damages. You will also learn
about assumption of risk, a separate but related doctrine that may also limit
a plaintiff’s recovery as a result of his own conduct.
Torts
342
CONTRIBUTORY NEGLIGENCE
z
z Under the traditional common law, the rule governing contributory
negligence was simple and harsh. If the plaintiff was contributorily
negligent-in other words, if the plaintiff breached his duty of care to
behave like a reasonable person-then the plaintiff lost, end of story.
Contributory negligence was a complete defense to a negligence claim.
z
z A few reasons justify this rather hard-nosed rule. The first is what
you might call an unclean hands issue. Normally when a plaintiff
sues a defendant, the plaintiff is in the position of an innocent asking
the court for justice against a blameworthy party. But when there’s
contributory negligence, both parties are effectively in the wrong.
In this kind of situation, courts were inclined to leave the damages
where they fell.
z
z Another reason for the complete bar to recovery relates to causation
and causal chains. Consider exactly what it means for the plaintiff to
be contributorily negligent. It means that the plaintiff was a factual
cause of the accident. But for the plaintiff’s contributory negligence, the
accident would not have happened. The plaintiff thus bears the ultimate
blame, and should not recover.
Lecture 8- When Tort Plaintiffs Share the Blame
343
z
z Finally, there is the basic issue of incentives. If the legal system didn’t
punish plaintiffs for their negligent behavior, then perhaps they
would not take adequate care. Nevertheless, traditional contributory
negligence doctrine can seem unduly rigid. Why not simply split
the difference, with the plaintiff receiving half the damages from
the defendant?
z
z There are some cases in which even an even split of the damages might
seem unfair to the plaintiff-if, for example, a defendant runs a red light
and hits a plaintiff walking inattentively, but legally, across the street.
Yes, perhaps the plaintiff should have been crossing more carefully, and
perhaps he was not acting reasonably. But the defendant is the one who
broke the rules, and is clearly the one at greater fault.
z
z Today, almost every jurisdiction in the United States has rejected
traditional contributory negligence in favor of comparative negligence.
Under a comparative-negligence regime, the jury decides the level
of comparative fault between the plaintiff and the defendant, and
the two parties split the damages accordingly. In these jurisdictions,
the plaintiff’s fault is no longer a complete bar to recovery; it merely
discounts it.
AVOIDABLE CONSEQUENCES
z
z A legal concept related to contributory negligence is called the doctrine
of avoidable consequences. To illustrate, consider a situation in which
the defendant drives negligently, hits the plaintiff, and breaks her
leg. For purposes of this example, assume that with proper medical
treatment the leg would have healed. What happens if the plaintiff
unreasonably does not seek medical treatment, and the leg becomes
gangrenous and ultimately has to be amputated?
z
z Under the doctrine of avoidable consequences, the plaintiff’s recovery
would be reduced due to her negligence in failing to seek treatment
after the accident. The damage caused by the defendant was a broken
leg, not an amputated one; the additional injury was the plaintiff’s fault.
Torts
344
z
z The avoidable-consequences doctrine exists in tension with the
traditional eggshell-skull rule, which suggests that the plaintiff’s fault
should be irrelevant. The eggshell-skull rule holds that the defendant
takes the plaintiff as-is, and must pay for the full extent of any damages.
z
z Unlike the eggshell-skull rule, the avoidable-consequences doctrineand comparative negligence as a whole-holds that the defendant’s
liability should be reduced according to the degree of the plaintiff’s
fault. This tension makes the razor-thin line between the plaintiff’s
behavior before the accident, on one hand, and her behavior at the time
of or after the accident, on the other, an extremely important one.
ASSUMPTION OF RISK
z
z Under traditional tort law, a plaintiff’s assumption of the risk of injury
was, like contributory negligence, a complete defense to liability. In
some cases, this doctrine has a deep visceral appeal. When a plaintiff
engages in a dangerous activity, he does so of his own volition, and is
thus perfectly capable of deciding whether or not to proceed.
Lecture 8- When Tort Plaintiffs Share the Blame
345
z
z Despite its inherent appeal, assumption of risk was traditionally used
to deny recovery in cases where plaintiffs’ freedom of choice was far
more dubious. Consider, for example, the case Lamson v. American Axe
& Tool Co., which was decided by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial
Court in 1900.
z
z In Lamson, the plaintiff’s job was to paint hatchets. After painting each
hatchet, the plaintiff placed it on a rack to dry-a rack that happened
to be located directly in front of his workspace. With the way the
racks were designed, the hatchets would fall if jarred by some nearby
machinery. The plaintiff complained to the management, who basically
told him to take it or leave it. The plaintiff stayed at the job, and was
later injured by one of the falling hatchets.
z
z Lamson was decided by another great judge
in the American pantheon, U.S. Supreme
Court justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.,
at a time when he was still chief judge of
the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court.
Holmes held that the plaintiff Lamson
had assumed the risk, stating that “the
plaintiff... appreciated the danger more than
anyone else. He perfectly understood what was
likely to happen.... He stayed and took the risk.”
z
z It’s important to note, however, that this was not a case where the
plaintiff’s assumption of risk was entirely gratuitous. Jobs can be hard
to find, and the costs of switching jobs can sometimes be considerable.
In many instances, the need to earn a living places additional pressure
on employees to remain at their jobs and assume some level of risk.
z
z The fundamental question is whether the difference in the degree to
which the plaintiff is free to choose is legally relevant. As time went
on, the harshness of the doctrine-especially when applied to employee
injuries-became increasingly untenable. Having large numbers of
injured workers who were both destitute and unable to work became
a serious social problem.
Torts
346
z
z The modern system of workers’ compensation was in many ways a direct
response to assumption of risk. It is essentially an insurance-based
system that pays for work-related injuries. It thus represents a preference
for an insurance-based solution over a tort-based solution. Despite
the difference in approach, workers’ compensation demonstrates our
society’s judgment that workplace injuries should be compensated.
z
z Assumption of risk is increasingly a disfavored and disappearing
doctrine. Some jurisdictions continue to abide by it, particularly
in cases involving athletic and recreational settings. In all other
areas, however, it has largely been supplanted by the doctrine of
comparative negligence.
z
z Comparative negligence enables a jury to compromise in order to attain
something approximating justice. The cost is an inevitable degree of
arbitrariness, but surely the benefits are well worth that cost. Indeed,
the flexibility of comparative negligence may be one reason that it has
become so popular in cases involving plaintiff conduct.
Suggested Reading
<
< Applbaum ex rel. Applbaum v. Golden Acres
Farm and Ranch.
<
< Lamson v. American Axe & Tool Co.
<
< McDermott v. Carie, LLC.
<
< Murphy v. Steeplechase Amusement Co.
<
< Sanson, “Avoiding Effect of Recreational Activity
Liability Release.”
<
< Simons, Murphy v. Steeplechase Amusement Co.
Lecture 8- When Tort Plaintiffs Share the Blame
347
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Lambert’s Café is a restaurant in Ozark, Missouri,
that is well known for being the “Home of Throwed
Rolls.” Rather than serving diners with dinner rolls in
a traditional basket, servers at Lambert’s Café throw
rolls across the room to guests. During a meal in 2014,
a customer was struck in the eye with a dinner roll,
resulting in serious vision loss. The plaintiff sued the
restaurant. How should the case come out under modern,
comparative-fault rules? How would it come out under
the assumption-of-risk doctrine?
Þ
Þ How should courts and legislatures handle the seat-belt
defense? If we surveyed the general population about the
desirability of the seat-belt defense, what do you think the
results would look like? Would responses correlate with
certain political or philosophical views?
Suggested Reading (continue)
<
< Standen, “Assumption of Risk in NFL Concussion
Litigation.”
<
< Strassfeld, “Taking Another Ride on the Flopper.”
<
< Yaconi v. Brady & Gioe, Inc.
348
Lecture 9
ANIMALS, BLASTING,
AND STRICT LIABILITY
T
his lecture explores the concept of strict liability. In particular, you
will learn about two types of cases in which strict liability, rather
than negligence, is the rule: cases involving damage caused by
animals, and cases involving damage from blasting and other types of
explosions. The lecture also examines the rationale behind the departure
from the traditional negligence standard, and whether strict liability really
is all that different.
GETTING WILD
z
z Historically, strict liability applied only to certain
types of narrowly defined situations.
As Professor Morton Horwitz
used to say, tort law is a sea
of negligence with islands
of strict liability. One such
island is made
up of cases
where the
plaintiff’s
injury has
been caused
by one or more
animals.
Lecture 9- Animals, Blasting, and Strict Liability
349
z
z Tort law divides the world of animal ownership into what is really three
groups. First, you have your ordinary, nondangerous domestic animal.
In other words, your typical dog or cat or fish, or even the less common
gerbil, parakeet, or rabbit. Owners of nondangerous domestic animals
are governed by the usual negligence standard.
z
z Owners of dangerous domestic animals are typically subject to strict
liability. For example, the owner of a vicious dog would be liable to
anyone bitten by the dog, regardless of what measures the owner took
to control the animal. But how do we determine which animals are
dangerous and which are not?
z
z The traditional common law approach had what was known as
the one-bite rule. The one-bite rule was that an animal operated
under a negligence regime until it bit someone, at which point things
switched to strict liability. Modern courts have abolished the one-bite
rule in favor of a more capacious standard. Now, any indication that an
animal has an abnormally dangerous propensity-lunging or baring its
teeth, for example-is enough to activate strict liability.
z
z Finally, there is the category of wild animals. Like dangerous domestic
animals, wild animals are governed by a strict-liability rule. If you
own a tiger or a king cobra and it escapes and hurts someone, you are
liable, regardless of the level of precaution you took to prevent its escape.
z
z The rule for wild animals seems straightforward enough, but there are
two interesting wrinkles. First, as you might imagine, deciding which
animals are “wild animals” is often a significant flashpoint for litigation.
A determination that a particular type of animal is a wild animal
requires not only lack of domestication-which would be relatively easy
to apply as rule-but it also a high likelihood of causing injury.
z
z The line separating wild animals from domestic animals has varied at
times in surprising and odd ways. The category of course include things
like lions and tigers. Courts have also applied the wild-animal label to
elephants, snakes, and monkeys. However, wild animals do not include
iguanas, pigeons, or manatees.
Torts
350
z
z One leading treatise addressing wild animals and strict liability
raises the problem of a zebra. To a layperson, a zebra certainly seems
like a wild animal, and is certainly exotic. In light of the requirement
that a wild animal have a high likelihood of causing injury, however,
zebras might not be sufficiently dangerous to warrant strict liability.
z
z The second wrinkle to the rule for wild animals is the existence of
potential exceptions, including one for zoos. When wild animals are
kept in controlled environments for the benefit of the public, as is the
case with zoo animals, some courts have been reluctant to impose strict
liability. This is a controversial rule, but there is a longstanding body of
case law suggesting that zoos are subject to different standards.
GETTING RISKY
z
z There are several, often complimentary reasons that certain activities
are singled out for strict liability. The first, proposed many decades ago
by Professor George Fletcher, is that we impose strict liability when
the activity involves what is known as a nonreciprocal or unilateral
imposition of risk. To understand this idea, we need to step back and ask
why we might prefer negligence over strict liability as a baseline rule.
Lecture 9- Animals, Blasting, and Strict Liability
351
z
z We all impose risks on one another. Every now and then, even if we
behave as reasonable people, accidents happen and people get injured.
Roughly speaking, however, we all impose mutual risks on one
another. The chance of any one of us being a victim, or a defendant, is
roughly the same. As long as everyone behaves reasonably, it’s arguably
inefficient to require one person to pay for the injuries of another.
z
z But when one of us is negligent, that symmetry is broken. The negligent
defendant has imposed more risk on society. Consequently, it’s fair to
ask the negligent defendant to pay for the injuries he causes. Doing so
also creates useful incentives not to be negligent.
z
z An example of these incentives can be seen in the zoo exception to the
wild-animal rule. Though they may impose a nonreciprocal risk on
their communities, zoos are nevertheless socially beneficial, offering
both entertainment and educational opportunities to the public.
Holding zoos to the negligence standard, instead of the strict-liability
standard imposed on private owners of wild animals, avoids creating
a potential disincentive to zoo operation.
Torts
352
GETTING BLASTED
z
z In modern tort law, blasting and explosions fall into the category
of ultrahazardous or abnormally dangerous activities, and are
therefore subject to strict liability. Other activities that courts have
found to be ultrahazardous include fumigation, gasoline storage, and
plutonium processing.
z
z Deciding whether a particular activity is ultrahazardous involves, in
part, determining whether the activity is not in common usage. As
a result, whether or not something is ultrahazardous often depends
on context. Gasoline storage may be ultrahazardous in a residential
neighborhood, but not amongst oil refineries.
z
z Fireworks are an especially interesting area of controversy. In some
older cases, courts found that fireworks were not subject to strict
liability, because they were a publicly beneficial form of entertainment.
On its face, this explanation sounds similar to the reasoning behind
the zoo exception to the wild-animal rule. Drawing a direct analogy
between fireworks and zoos is problematic, however.
Lecture 9- Animals, Blasting, and Strict Liability
353
z
z In the wild-animal context, we can distinguish private ownership of
wild animals from zoo ownership based on public utility. Individuals
owning wild animals arguably provide little public utility; private
ownership is deemed unreasonable and subject to strict liability in part
for that reason. Zoos, on the other hand, offer the public education and
entertainment, and are thus held to the lesser standard of negligence.
z
z Most ultrahazardous activities, like blasting, are also publicly useful.
In some cases, like road construction, blasting directly benefits the
public. Even blasting for private development is a socially beneficial
activity. The mere fact that fireworks provide public value doesn’t
distinguish them from other ultrahazardous activities that are subject
to strict liability.
Suggested Reading
<
< Abraham, “Rylands v. Fletcher.”
<
< Allen and Harris, “Officers Tell Harrowing Tale of
Catching Elvis the Cobra.”
<
< City of Dallas v. Heard.
<
< Dobbs, The Law of Torts.
<
< Hammontree v. Jenner.
<
< Heeg v. Licht.
<
< Rylands v. Fletcher.
<
< Simpson, “Legal Liability for Bursting Reservoirs.”
<
< Tavernese, “Man Who Kept Tiger in Apartment
Gets 5-Month Jail Term.”.
Torts
354
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Consider this modification of the facts in the San
Francisco Zoo case: Suppose that a visitor had provoked
the tiger and provided it with some means of escape
(by lowering an object into the enclosure, perhaps). The
tiger escapes, and attacks a different visitor, an entirely
uninvolved and innocent victim. If the victim sues the
zoo, will the zoo be subject to strict liability? Consider
that there may also be issues surrounding whether or not
the zoo is the proximate cause of the plaintiff’s injury.
Þ
Þ The distinction between strict liability and negligence
can often be distilled into a difference of time frame.
Ownership of a tiger is a strict-liability trigger when
viewed at the time of the accident, but may only be
a negligent decision when viewed at the time of purchase
(the argument being that it is unreasonable to own the
tiger in the first place). Consider how time frames might
interact with the reasonable-person standard if, for
example, a defendant with a history of seizures crashes his
car into a business owner’s storefront. If the defendant’s
behavior is assessed at the time of the accident, is he
liable? How might the answer change if the defendant’s
behavior is instead assessed at the time he starts his car?
355
Lecture 10
THE RISE OF PRODUCTS
LIABILITY
M
assive tort cases have become almost mundane in modern
America. For the last few decades, mass torts have been all over the
media, including late-night television commercials. Some involve
pharmaceutical drugs, medical devices, or defective consumer products.
Others involve well-known harmful substances, like tobacco, lead paint, or
asbestos. Not all claims are successful, of course, but some result in awards
of millions if not billions of dollars.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
z
z Massive products-liability cases share a few key characteristics that
distinguish them from traditional negligence cases. First, productsliability cases are rarely about negligence; most are governed by
a specialized form of strict liability. Consequently, the critical issues
in products-liability cases often center around the issue of causationwhether the product at issue
actually caused the
harm.
Torts
356
z
z Second, while products-liability lawsuits are typically filed against the
manufacturers of the products at issue, it’s almost never the case that
the plaintiffs bought the products directly from the manufacturers.
Instead, products are sold to consumers by retailers. Pharmaceuticals,
for example, are sold to consumers by pharmacies, not by the
manufacturers themselves.
z
z Third, the sheer scale of products-liability cases makes them almost
an entirely different animal from the traditional tort case. There are
often thousands-and in some cases, millions-of potential plaintiffs.
Numbers like these, along with the imposition of strict liability and the
ability of consumers to sue manufacturers directly, have had the effect
of promoting litigation on a massive scale.
MACPHERSON V. BUICK MOTOR CO.
z
z The history of products-liability law gives us an opportunity to see the
law develop over time as courts struggle to solve problems of the modern
economy. It also allows us to examine some
of the most famous torts cases of all time.
First up is MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.,
a 1916 case decided by New York Court
of Appeals judge Benjamin Cardozothe same Benjamin Cardozo who later
became an associate justice of the U.S.
Supreme Court.
z
z The plaintiff, Donald MacPherson, was driving
his 1910 Model 10 Buick Runabout when one of its wheels suddenly
collapsed due to a defect, causing him to crash. Because this was a 1910
Buick, built when society was transitioning from the horse and buggy
to the automobile, the car’s wheels were made out of wood. MacPherson
claimed that Buick was negligent in inspecting the wooden wheels,
which had been made by another manufacturer.
Lecture 10- The Rise of Products Liability
357
z
z To modern eyes, this appears to be a simple case: MacPherson should
recover from Buick for its negligence in inspecting the wheel. At the
time, however, the path to victory was not so simple. For one thing,
MacPherson didn’t buy his car from Buick. As is still the case today,
cars were first sold to many different distributors and independent
dealerships, who then turned around and sold them directly
to customers.
z
z The presence of the intermediary-the dealer-creates big conceptual
problems for the usual torts requirement that the defendant owes the
plaintiff a duty of care. And that’s the key question in MacPherson:
Does Buick have a duty of care to downstream customers? Or is Buick’s
duty limited to just the immediate purchaser?
z
z The latter conclusion was consistent with tort law’s traditional
limitation, which depended on a concept known as privity. Buick had
a contract with, and was thus in privity with, the dealer or the distributor.
Thus, under the traditional rules, the only party that could sue Buick
for a defect was the dealer. Similarly, MacPherson was in privity with
the dealer, not Buick. So
MacPherson could sue
the dealer for the
defective car, but
not Buick.
Torts
358
z
z Some have argued that the privity rule existed to protect manufacturers
from liability, an effect that it no doubt had. Others have suggested
that it guarded against a flood of consumer litigation, and if you think
about today’s mass tort litigation, that’s partly right too. But there is
also a conceptual reason for the privity rule, which is that it allows
defendants to order their affairs. It allows makers of products to know
whom they are dealing with, and to know when they have satisfied
their obligations.
z
z In an age of limited production-one involving largely handmade or
custom products-a privity rule made sense. A furniture maker built
a chair for a customer. If the customer was satisfied with the chair, then
any liability would arguably end there. The furniture maker chose to
deal with that customer; the customer chose to deal with that specific
furniture manufacturer. The fact that the customer sold the chair to
someone else, or had a dinner guest sit on it, was really the customer’s
problem, not the furniture maker’s.
z
z That logic makes little sense in a modern economy of mass-produced
goods, corporate branding, and marketing. The key relationship
that the modern manufacturer wants to build is with the ultimate
consumer. Its advertising is directed at the consumer, and it jealously
protects its trademarks and brand recognition. This is true for cars, like
Buicks, and even more true when it comes to smaller purchases, like
TVs or bottles of soda. The retailer is just a conduit that connects the
manufacturer with you, the consumer.
Lecture 10- The Rise of Products Liability
359
z
z In MacPherson, Cardozo began the process of dismantling the privity
rule by focusing on a chink in the rule’s armor, an 1852 case called
Thomas v. Winchester. In Winchester, a supplier had negligently
mislabeled a poison, which a pharmacy then gave to a consumer.
The privity rule, of course, would have prevented the consumer from
suing the supplier, because the consumer contracts only with the
pharmacy. The Winchester court, however, held that the privity rule
was inapplicable when the product was inherently or imminently
dangerous, like poison.
z
z Keeping Winchester in mind, Cardozo then distinguished two cases
that were otherwise problems for him. And by distinguishing them, he
was basically able to discard them. First, there was Loop v. Litchfield,
decided in 1870. Second was Losee v. Clute, decided in 1873. Cardozo
cleverly narrowed Loop and Losee, distinguishing them from the facts
in MacPherson.
z
z According to Cardozo, the plaintiff had lost in those earlier cases not
because of the privity rule, but for other reasons-in particular, the
fact that the original purchaser was to blame for the harm caused, in
effect breaking the chain of causation back to the manufacturer. With
the problematic cases distinguished, Cardozo then turned to several
cases that pushed the limits of Winchester and the dangerous product
exception. Ultimately, he used these favorable cases to completely
eliminate the privity rule.
z
z Two favorable cases addressed by Cardozo were Devlin v. Smith and
Statler v. Ray Manufacturing, which involved collapsing scaffolding and
an exploding coffee urn, respectively. In both cases, the plaintiff had
been allowed to recover from the manufacturer of the product. Cardozo
observed that in these cases, neither product was inherently dangerous;
they were only dangerous because they had been improperly made.
As such, the exception for dangerous products had already undergone
a subtle but important expansion.
Torts
360
z
z Defined in this way, of course, the dangerous-product exception
swallows the rule. Nearly every product is dangerous if negligently
made. Following the reasoning in MacPherson, almost any product that
causes injury-that is, any product that generates a tort suit-will be
defined as “dangerous.” With this deft bit of sleight of hand, Cardozo
swept away the privity rule. He did limit his new principle, however,
stating that it would apply only if the product would not be tested or
inspected by consumers.
ESCOLA V. COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
z
z In 1941, Gladys Escola, a waitress at Tiny’s Waffle Shop, was restocking
the waffle shop’s refrigerator with Coca-Cola, which at the time came in
reusable glass bottles. One of the bottles exploded in her hand, injuring
her. Escola sued the bottling company, which was the distributor
responsible for refilling the bottles.
Lecture 10- The Rise of Products Liability
361
z
z This was after MacPherson, so Escola was perfectly allowed to sue
the bottling company, even though the contract-that is to say, the
privity-was only between the bottling company and the restaurant.
Escola had a problem, however. Strict liability for products wouldn’t be
the law for another two decades. The rule was still negligence, which
would have been all-but-impossible for her to prove.
z
z Had the bottler negligently overpressurized the bottle? That was
a common problem at the time. Had the distributor negligently
inspected the bottle, such that a defective one had come through the
production line? Did the bottle get whacked-whether by the driver, or
one of Escola’s coworkers, or Escola herself? The fact is, we just don’t
know. Escola certainly didn’t. And any evidence concerning the bottle
itself was gone when the bottle exploded.
z
z In an attempt to show wrongdoing on the part of the bottler, Escola
employed the common law doctrine of res ipsa loquitur, which allows
the plaintiff to use circumstantial evidence to infer the existence of
negligence. Escola argued that glass bottles do not normally explode
without negligence. That’s not exactly right, however; glass bottles
might not explode in the absence of negligence, but that doesn’t
necessarily mean the bottler was at fault. Escola herself, for example,
could easily have knocked the bottle into something, damaging it to the
point of explosion.
z
z At this point in the development of products liability, courts had
already started to interpret res ipsa loquitur in expansive ways. And
an expansive or loose application of res ipsa loquitur transformed what
was a negligence standard into one strikingly close to strict liability.
In court, a defendant would be extremely hard-pressed to defend
against claims like Escola’s. The plaintiff is clearly injured, and the
defendant can do nothing except perhaps feebly protest that it has
quality controls. The manufacturer is almost always going to lose in
that scenario.
Torts
362
z
z That is precisely what happened in Escola. The majority of the
California Supreme Court held that res ipsa loquitur applied to the case,
and because the jury had found for the plaintiff, the damages award was
affirmed. In a notable opinion concurring in the judgment, the court’s
Justice Traynor argued that products liability should be simply strict
liability. Traynor argued implicitly that broad application of res ipsa
loquitur was already operating like strict liability, so the court might as
well make it official.
z
z It would be another two decades-from 1944 to 1963, to be precisebefore Traynor was able to convince the rest of his colleagues to fully
embrace strict products liability. But embedded in his 1944 concurrence
in Escola were all of the arguments and reasons for the revolution in
strict liability that was to come.
z
z The first of Traynor’s arguments is often characterized as a costavoidance argument. Traynor observed that the manufacturer is
in the best position to improve product safety, and that making
a manufacturer responsible for all of the harms caused by its products
would thus optimize the manufacturer’s incentives to choose the
correct level of safety.
z
z Traynor’s second argument is a loss-spreading argument, and it
views the manufacturer as an efficient insurer. The problem with
product defects, the argument goes, is that they strike like lightning.
For example, out of millions of soft drink bottles, a few will explode,
causing serious damage to a few unlucky victims. By imposing strict
liability, manufacturers effectively becomes the insurers for these
lightning strikes. A bottler, for example, can charge a penny or two
more per bottle-the premium, as it were-and pay out when sued for
product defects.
Lecture 10- The Rise of Products Liability
363
Suggested Reading
<
< Berenson, “Merck Agrees to Settle Vioxx Suits
for $4.85 Billion.”
<
< Escola v. Coca-Cola Bottling Co.
<
< Geistfeld, “Escola v. Coca Cola Bottling Co.”
<
< Henderson, “MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.”
<
< Hull and Fisk, “Tesla Cranks Up Pressure to End
Ban on Direct Auto Sales.”
<
< MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Imposing strict liability on manufacturers for their
products is often thought to be unfair because they are
not at “fault” per se. Is the argument for loss-spreadingin other words, turning the manufacturer into an
insurer-a legitimate basis for liability? Would it be
preferable to simply allow a separate insurance market
to form? Would such an insurance market form in the
absence of strict products liability?
Þ
Þ MacPherson broadly abolished the privity rule, but should
its holding be interpreted so broadly? For example, while
MacPherson may make sense for mass-market consumer
products, it makes less sense for custom products,
or ones created by individual artisans. Should there
be limitations?
364
Lecture 11
PRODUCTS LIABILITY
TODAY
T
his lecture is about the current state of products-liability law. In this
lecture, you will learn about the types of products and manufacturers
that are subject to strict products liability. You will also explore the
types of harm suffered by plaintiffs in products-liability cases. Finally, you
will learn about the legal distinctions among three categories of product
defects: manufacturing defects, design defects, and failures to warn.
Lecture 11- Products Liability Today
365
THE BUSINESS OF SELLING
z
z The Third Restatement of Torts, in its discussion of products liability,
begins with a simple statement of the position adopted by its drafters:
“One engaged in the business of selling or otherwise distributing
products who sells or distributes a defective product is subject to
liability for harm to persons or property caused by the defect.”
z
z You can see that the rule involves strict liability. The focus is on
products, and the liability is for harm, unqualified by negligence or
fault. But there’s more to this provision than meets the eye. Unpacking
this language will give you a sense of how a lawyer unpacks a statute.
The three words to focus on here are “selling,” “harm,” and “defect.”
z
z Those engaged in the business of selling include manufacturers, of
course, but also wholesalers and retailers-the entire supply chain,
in other words. Note, however, that because the language is about the
business of selling, strict liability is limited only to commercial sellers.
This means that casual sellers are excluded. For these casual sales, the
usual negligence standard will apply.
z
z This exclusion for casual sellers makes sense in light of the rationales
behind strict liability. A casual seller doesn’t have enough sales to
become an insurer under the loss-spreading theory of strict liability. It
also isn’t the best cost-avoider, having neither the volume nor the money
to do research into manufacturing processes and quality control.
z
z We also need to be precise about selling itself. One important
distinction is the difference between a product seller and a service
provider. For example, say a pipe bursts in your house. If you install
a pipe yourself, and that pipe turns out to be defective and injures you,
you can sue the manufacturer in strict liability. If the pipe is installed by
a plumber instead, you would still be able sue the manufacturer in strict
liability. The plumber himself, however, is subject only to a negligence
claim; he’s a service provider, not a product seller.
Torts
366
TYPES OF HARM
z
z The next issue to parse is the matter of harm. Most of the harm you
hear about would be covered by the language used in the Restatement:
disease from pharmaceuticals, personal injuries from the lack of an
airbag or an accident caused by a defective tire, property damage from
an exploding lithium battery, etc. All would be subject to strict liability.
z
z But there is one kind of harm that is not recognized under strict
products liability-or tort law in general, for that matter-and it is
what is sometimes called economic loss. Strict liability applies to harms
caused by the product to other things-people, for example, or the
surrounding property. It does not apply to harm to the product itself.
z
z Consider a defect in a faucet that causes it to crack and slice into your
hand. That’s products liability, and strict liability applies. But if a defect
in the faucet causes it to no longer work, that’s an economic loss, and
not a tort at all. Similarly, if a defect in the faucet’s finish causes it to
tarnish and become ugly, that’s not a tort; it’s a purely economic loss.
z
z The rationale behind the economic-loss rule is the rather basic idea
that tort law will not come to the rescue in the case of bad economic
decisions. If you buy a cheap toaster and it explodes-a situation that
should never happen-products liability applies. If you buy a cheap
toaster and it burns your toast, that’s your problem. Disappointed
economic expectations are the realm of contract, not tort.
TYPES OF DEFECTS
z
z The defect requirement for strict liability is where the rubber really
meets the road, because defects are at the core of products-liability
cases. There are three different types of defects in products liability:
manufacturing defects, design defects, and failures to warn. Each of
these three types of defect is subject to a particular set of standards that
must be met if the plaintiff is to succeed.
Lecture 11- Products Liability Today
367
z
z The first category is manufacturing defects. The Restatement defines
a manufacturing defect as when a “product departs from its intended
design even though all possible care was exercised in the preparation
and marketing of the product.” For manufacturing defects, the rule is
strict liability. As the Restatement says, a deviation from the intended
design is a defect, regardless of how careful the manufacturer is, and
regardless of whose fault it is. If there’s a manufacturing defect, the
manufacturer will be held liable.
z
z The second category is design defects. Compared to the definition of
a manufacturing defect, the definition of a design defect is far more
controversial. The Restatement defines a design defect as occurring
when the “foreseeable risks of harm... could have been reduced or
avoided by the adoption of a reasonable alternative design.” One
controversy surrounding this definition concerns the use of the word
“reasonable,” a word more commonly used in negligence cases, rather
than strict liability.
368
z
z Critics of the Restatement accused its drafters of trying to secretly
transform what was supposed to be a doctrine of strict liability back
to an old-school negligence standard. But how else can you explain
what a design defect is? In many ways, the very nature of a design
defect is that it involves some kind of negligence or unreasonableness.
Alternative definitions that were proposed occasionally focused on the
issue of consumer expectations, but even in those instances, there was
still some idea of fault or blame involved.
z
z Another controversy about design-defect doctrine focuses on consumer
choice. Why shouldn’t you, as a consumer, have the ability to choose
between a table saw with safety technology and one without safety
technology? The added technology is expensive, and perhaps you would
prefer the more dangerous saw with a reduced price. Perhaps you’re
a careful person, or you simply don’t use your table saw very much.
Should there be a baseline level of safety despite market preferences?
Tort law is about that
baseline, but it’s
a controversial
one to draw.
Lecture 11- Products Liability Today
369
z
z The third and final category of defects consists of what are known
as failures to warn. These are cases in which the risks of harm could
have been reduced through the use of better instructions or warnings.
Although failures to warn are traditionally a separate category of defect
under products-liability law, they are conceptually similar to design
defects. After all, warnings are part of the design of a product.
z
z Among the types of defects, failure to warn is the one that tends to
prompt the most puzzling behavior by manufacturers, perhaps because
warnings are cheap. Ridiculous warnings now appear on everyday
items-coffee cups warning that their contents are hot, irons warning
you not to iron your clothes while wearing them. These are the results
of manufacturer attempts to avoid product-liability suits for failure
to warn.
Suggested Reading
<
< Barchenger, “Family Sues Amazon after
Hoverboard Fire Destroys $1M House.”
<
< Geier v. Am. Honda Motor Co.
<
< Henderson, and Twerski, “A Proposed
Revision of Section 402A.”
<
< Maloney, “Florida District Court.”
<
< Osorio v. One World Technologies, Inc.
<
< Restatement (Second) of Torts.
<
< Restatement (Third) of Torts.
Torts
370
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Consider the following scenario, which involves the
modern form of transportation known as the hoverboard:
A plaintiff buys a defective hoverboard from an
independent retailer through an Internet marketplaceAmazon Marketplace, for example, or eBay. The
hoverboard’s battery catches fire, and the fire spreads,
destroying the plaintiff’s home. The manufacturer is
a foreign counterfeiter. The retailer, according to the
plaintiff, is a sham company with no assets. Can the
plaintiff sue the marketplace in strict products liability?
Does it matter that the marketplace merely facilitated the
transaction and never actually sold the product?
Þ
Þ A conventional table saw without flesh-detection
technology cost less than $150. A modern saw with the
technology costs at least $1,000. If a plaintiff purchases
a
conventional
table
saw
and
accidentally-but
nonnegligently-severs his finger in an accident, will he
be able to recover from the manufacturer of the saw on
a theory of defective design? What type of cost-benefit
analysis is appropriate in this context? Should consumer
choice matter?
371
Lecture 12
PUNITIVE DAMAGES
AND THEIR LIMITS
T
his lecture examines the matter of punitive damages, providing
a closer look at the facts that lie underneath the sensational headlines
and massive jury awards. In this lecture, you will learn what punitive
damages are, why we have them, and how the legal system can rein in outof-control juries. Punitive damages play a unique and quite limited role in
our legal system, and are not necessarily as lawless as they are commonly
thought to be.
Torts
372
TYPES OF DAMAGES
z
z There are three types of damages that a plaintiff can ask for in a torts
or personal-injury case. The first two are forms of compensatory
damages. As the name implies, these damages compensate the plaintiff
for the harm done. In other words, the defendant behaved badly and
caused damage to the plaintiff, so the defendant has to pay the plaintiff
to make the plaintiff whole again.
Lecture 12- Punitive Damages and Their Limits
373
z
z Compensatory damages come in two flavors. The first are economic
damages,
sometimes
called
pecuniary
damages.
These
are
compensatory damages to which it is relatively easy to assign a dollar
figure. For example, the plaintiff in the well-known McDonald’s coffee
lawsuit had extensive medical bills as a result of the burns she suffered.
These are easily quantified. If McDonald’s behaved wrongfully,
McDonald’s would have to pay for them. If the plaintiff missed work as
a result of her injury, McDonald’s would have to compensate her for her
lost wages-again, easily quantified.
z
z More nebulous is the second category of damages, which is made up of
noneconomic damages. Noneconomic damages are still compensatory,
but they are far less easily quantified. Pain-and-suffering damages,
for example, are noneconomic damages. The defendant is still
compensating the plaintiff for the damage caused-in the McDonald’s
case, for example, the pain caused by the burns or the pain from the
plaintiff’s subsequent skin-graft procedures. But there is no clear way
to put a dollar amount on pain or injuries.
z
z In addition to the two kinds of compensatory damages, there are also
punitive damages. The primary purpose of punitive damages is, as the
name implies, to punish the defendant for wrongdoing. The plaintiff
has already been made whole; now the question becomes how much
more we should extract from the defendant as a pure penalty.
z
z As we will see, we can use this extra penalty, these punitive damages,
to deter the defendant from doing similar things in the future. Or we
might use it to simply express our outrage. In either instance, however,
the focus is entirely on the defendant and his bad act, not on what the
plaintiff has suffered. In other words, compensatory damages focus on
the plaintiff, while punitive damages focus on the defendant.
Torts
374
PUNITIVE DAMAGES
z
z Punitive damages are a rare and special form of damages. Plaintiffs
seldom ask for them, and juries even more rarely award them. According
to the U.S. Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Statistics, in 2005
plaintiffs only asked for punitive damages in 12 percent of torts and
contract cases. Out of more than 14,000 of these cases in which the
plaintiffs won, punitive damages were awarded in a miniscule five
percent of them. That’s only 700 punitive-damages awards for the
entire country over a one-year period.
z
z Despite being seldom used, punitive damages are often a flashpoint
for controversy because they can generate very large, eye-catching
numbers. The McDonald’s coffee case, for example, resulted in an
award of $2.7 million for punitive damages. In the 700 cases from 2005
in which punitive damages were awarded, 13 percent involved awards
of more than $1 million. That’s more than 90 cases in one year with
punitive damages upward of $1 million.
z
z An even greater source of controversy is that huge punitive-damages
awards often seem arbitrary. Like damages for pain and suffering,
punitive damages aren’t easily quantified. Just as it’s difficult to value
someone’s pain or suffering,
it’s hard to put a dollar figure
on how badly the defendant
behaved. Critics of punitive
damages complain that
a jury can basically
award whatever it
wants. They might feel
bad for the plaintiff,
and go after the
deep pockets of the
defendant as a result.
Lecture 12- Punitive Damages and Their Limits
375
MULTIPLE PURPOSES
z
z Punitive damages serve several purposes. One major goal of lawsuits
in general, and of punitive damages in particular, is deterrencediscouraging defendants from engaging in blameworthy behavior. If
plaintiffs were only permitted to seek compensatory damages, their
ability to recover in tort wouldn’t deter corporations or other deeppocketed defendants from continuing the behavior that led to the
plaintiffs’ injuries.
z
z Even in cases with more substantial compensatory damages at stake, we
would still need punitive damages. Compensatory damages might be
seen by defendants as merely the cost of doing business. To put an end
to this mentality, we need a bigger stick than compensatory damages
can provide. Punitive damages are that stick.
z
z Another purpose that punitive damages serve is enforcement. Lawsuits
take a lot of time, money, and energy to pursue. As a result, many
potential plaintiffs elect not to pursue legal action, viewing the high
costs of litigation as more trouble than they are worth.
z
z To set incentives properly, the legal system needs to somehow account
for these cases of nonenforcement. And once again, it’s punitive
damages to the rescue. Punitive damages, when they
are awarded, indirectly hold defendants accountable
for the damages they cause over the long term,
thus setting defendants’ incentives correctly.
z
z The other major reason to have punitive
damages is, quite simply, to be punitive.
Punitive-damages awards punish the defendant
for bad conduct. This can be an end in itself,
particularly when viewed from the perspective
of society at large.
Torts
376
z
z Cases involving punitive damages are different from those involving
simple negligence, in which harm occurs unintentionally. If you get
into a car accident with another driver, the other driver may be at fault
or negligent, but it’s unlikely that he was purposely trying to hit your
car. Similarly, if you slip on ice on someone’s sidewalk, the homeowners
may have been careless in not shoveling the snow, but they weren’t
trying to make you fall.
z
z In punitive damages cases, the harm is often intentional. Defendants
may know that what they are doing is wrong or illegal, and then do it
anyway. Another common scenario involves recklessness: Perhaps the
defendant didn’t want the harm to occur, but he ignored substantial
risk of harm that his conduct created. In some cases, courts refer to
recklessness as willful and wanton conduct. In these kinds of cases,
punitive damages let us, though the jury, express our outrage against
the defendants.
LIMITING FACTORS
z
z The legal system controls or puts limits on punitive damages in several
ways. One major source for limitations is the state legislature. Another
is the court itself.
z
z In response to the seeming arbitrariness of punitive-damages awards,
some state legislatures have imposed caps on punitive damages. These
caps come in a variety of forms: They can be numerical limits-for
example, no punitive damages greater than $500,000. The problem
with this approach comes in cases involving very large compensatory
awards. In such cases, a low cap makes little sense.
z
z Others have proposed multiplier limits, where any punitive damages
awarded can’t be greater than twice or three times the amount of
compensatory damages. These limits work well at the high end, but
can cause trouble at the lower end of the spectrum. To address this
issue, some state legislatures have adopted hybrids of multiplier and
numerical limits.
Lecture 12- Punitive Damages and Their Limits
377
z
z Still other punitive damages reform efforts have tried to limit the
windfall that plaintiffs get. The purpose of punitive damages is to deter
or punish the defendant; the plaintiff has already been made whole
by the compensatory damages. We might want to give plaintiffs some
incentive to file suit, but perhaps not multimillion-dollar incentives.
z
z Some states allow the plaintiff to keep only a percentage of the punitive
damages as a reward. The remainder goes to the state, sometimes to
a fund that compensates crime victims. These limitations reduce the
appearance that plaintiffs are winning a punitive-damages lottery at
the defendant’s expense.
z
z On a case-by-case basis, individual courts also have the power to
moderate large awards. The most common tool in a judge’s toolbox
is called remittitur. Let’s say the jury awards a staggering amount of
punitive damages. If the judge thinks that the amount is excessive,
he can grant a new trial on the issue of damages-a do-over, in
a sense-based on his conclusion that no rational jury could have found
the facts as the jury did in the case.
Torts
378
z
z The problem with remittitur when used this way is that it is a fairly
blunt instrument. The court has to conduct an entirely new trial, at
substantial cost of time and money. And at the end of the day, there’s
no guarantee that the next jury will assign a punitive-damages amount
lower than the one assigned by the first jury.
z
z A more nuanced approach judges sometimes take is to threaten
remittitur, giving plaintiff a choice: either accept a more reasonable
amount of punitive damages, or take your chances with a new trial and
all the associated expenses. Used this way, remittitur might seem like
a form of judicial blackmail. Nevertheless, it is a well-accepted legal
practice. Unsurprisingly, plaintiffs usually take the lower amount.
Suggested Reading
<
< BMW of North America v. Gore.
<
< Cain, “And Now, the Rest of the Story
about the McDonald’s Coffee Lawsuit.”
<
< Cheng, “When 10 Trials Are Better Than 1000.”
<
< Cohen and Harbacek, “Punitive
Damage Awards in State Courts.”
<
< Jacque v. Steenberg Homes.
<
< Kirkland, The Vaccine Court.
<
< Liebeck v. McDonald’s Restaurants.
<
< Mathias v. Accor Economy Lodging, Inc.
<
< Schwab v. Philip Morris USA.
Lecture 12- Punitive Damages and Their Limits
379
Questions to Consider
Þ
Þ Should the tort system feature punitive damages at all?
Should punishment instead be left to prosecutors or other
state actors who can better account for and balance the
public interest involved not only in punishing defendants,
but in incentivizing business and manufacturing?
Þ
Þ The combination of punitive-damages caps, remittitur,
and constitutional limitations arguably creates three
intrusions on jury discretion. Are these sensible
safeguards against potentially wayward juries? Or are
these illegitimate usurpations of the jury’s power in our
judicial system?
380
Law School for Everyone
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Litigation and Legal Practice
Cohen, George M. The State of Lawyer Knowledge under the Model
Rules of Professional Conduct. 3 Am. U. Bus. L. Rev. 115 (2014). In
this article, Professor Cohen considers the question of whether it is
permissible, under the Model Rules of Professional Conduct, for an
attorney to remain willfully blind to wrongdoing by his client. He
recommends changes to the Model Rules, including clarifying when
an attorney should be under a duty to investigate wrongdoing.
Constitution of the United States, http://www.law.cornell.edu/
constitution/overview. To understand the American system of laws,
one must start by reading the Constitution. Pay particular attention
to the three branches of federal government (the legislative,
executive, and judicial branches, established by Articles I, II,
and III, respectively), as well as the powers reserved by the states
(articulated in Article IV). The Bill of Rights and the Thirteenth,
Fourteenth, Fifteenth, and Nineteenth Amendments are also
particularly significant.
Davis, John W. The Argument of an Appeal. 3 J. App. Prac. & Process
(2001). This is a reprint of a speech Judge Davis delivered to the
Association of the Bar of the City of New York on October 22, 1940.
In it, he offers 10 wise rules for successful appellate advocacy.
De Tocqueville, Alexis. Democracy in America. Translated by
Harvey C. Mansfield and Delba Winthrop. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 2000. This is a translation of an 1831 text by Alexis
de Tocqueville about his visit to America and his observations about
American democracy. It is a seminal and frequently quoted work
about American culture and government.
Federal Rules of Evidence 401, 403, 404, 608, 801, 802 (2015), http://
www.law.cornell.edu/rules/fre. This is a selection of some of the
rules governing the use of evidence in federal trials. The advisory
committee notes provide helpful explanations of each rule.
381
Bibliography
Garrett, Brandon. Convicting the Innocent. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 2012. This book examines the first 250
cases of wrongfully convicted people who were later exonerated by
DNA evidence. It analyzes what went wrong in those prosecutions,
tackling questions such as why innocent people might confess to
crimes they did not commit and why eyewitness testimony can
be fallible.
Harlan, John M. What Part Does the Oral Argument Play in the
Conduct of an Appeal? 41 Cornell L. Rev. 6 (1955). Justice Harlan
delivered these remarks at a judicial conference on June 24, 1955.
He analyzes the significance of appellate oral argument, offering
attorneys insight into how to persuade an appellate judge.
Harr, Johnathan. A Civil Action. New York: Random House, 1995.
This nonfiction book tells the story of a lawyer, Jan Schlichtmann,
who sues two large corporations for dumping carcinogenic
chemicals into the water of Woburn, Massachusetts. The actions
taken by the two corporations resulted the deaths of at least six
children from leukemia. One of the fascinating aspects of this
story is the relationship between the clients and their attorney, who
becomes so committed to their cause that he ends up bankrupting
himself in the process.
Hart, H. L. A. The Concept of Law. 3rd ed. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2012. This is a classic book of legal philosophy. In it, Hart
explores the nature of law, drawing a distinction between the core of
a rule and the debatable edges of it, which he called the penumbra.
His famous example involves imagining a rule prohibiting vehicles
in a public park, and then asking whether that rule would extend to
bicycles or roller skates.
Mauet, Thomas A. Pretrial. New York: Wolters Kluwer Law
& Business, 2012. This text guides lawyers through pretrial
preparation, including engaging in discovery, filing pretrial motions,
and preparing witnesses. It is the classic pretrial preparation guide
relied on by many practicing attorneys.
382
Law School for Everyone
---. Trial Techniques and Trials. 9th ed. New York: Wolters
Kluwer Law & Business, 2013. This is the standard handbook
relied on by attorneys preparing for trial. It examines each stage
of trial, including opening statements, direct examination, crossexamination, and closing arguments.
McCloskey, Robert G. The American Supreme Court. 6th ed.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2016. This book offers
a comprehensive history of the U.S. Supreme Court. It considers the
nature of judicial power as it traces the Court through different eras
of American history.
Model Rules of Professional Conduct Rules 1.3, 1.2, 1.6 (2017).
http://www.americanbar.org/groups/professional_
responsibility/
publications/model_rules_of_professional_conduct.html. These are
the ethical rules adopted by most jurisdictions in the United States
to govern attorney conduct. The rules that regulate an attorney’s
obligation toward his client include helpful commentary that
highlights the challenges of the attorney-client relationship.
Sacks, Michael J. and Barbara A. Spellman. The Psychological
Foundations of Evidence Law. New York: NYU Press, 2016. This
book explores the rules of evidence through the lens of psychology,
asking whether the rules accomplish their objectives. It also suggests
amendments to the rules of evidence to strengthen their efficacy.
Sayler, Robert N. and Molly Bishop Shadel. Tongue-Tied America:
Reviving the Art of Verbal Persuasion. New York: Wolters Kluwer
Law & Business, 2014. This text, coauthored by Professor Shadel,
explores how to speak persuasively both in and out of the courtroom.
Scalia, Antonin and Bryan A. Garner. Making Your Case: The Art
of Persuading Judges. St. Paul: Thomson/West, 2008. This book,
coauthored by Justice Scalia, analyzes how advocates persuade
judges. It also offers a view of the Supreme Court through the eyes
of a controversial but influential justice.
383
Bibliography
Schauer, Frederick. Thinking Like a Lawyer: A New Introduction to
Legal Reasoning. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2009.
In this text, Professor Schauer examines how lawyers and judges
think, reason, and argue. It is an accessible, engaging articulation
of the kind of reasoning that characterizes legal decision-making.
Shadel, Molly Bishop. Finding Your Voice in Law School: Mastering
Classroom Cold-Calls, Job Interviews, and Other Verbal Challenges.
Durham, NC: Carolina Academic Press (2013). This book,
coauthored by Professor Shadel, examines the verbal challenges of
law school, including trial exercises such as direct examinations and
cross-examinations.
Sullivan, William, et al. Educating Lawyers: Preparation for the
Profession of Law. Stanford: The Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching, 2007. This book is the result of an
extensive examination of American law schools by the Carnegie
Foundation. It examines what law schools are teaching law
students, including shortcomings in legal education. It is a critical
examination of what it means to think like a lawyer.
Younger, Irving. The Irving Younger Collection: Wisdom and Wit
from the Master of Trial Advocacy. Edited by Stephen D. Easton.
New York: American Bar Association, 2010. Irving Younger was
a lawyer and professor who was renowned for his lectures about
trial advocacy. His “Ten Commandments of Cross Examination” is
oft-repeated advice for trial lawyers. This book collects some of his
most famous writings about trial advocacy.
Criminal Law and Procedure
Cases
Alford v. North Carolina, 400 U.S. 25 (1970). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/400/25/case.html. Defendant can plead guilty
to a crime even if he denies actually committing the crime.
384
Law School for Everyone
Austin v. United States, 382 F.2d 129 (D.C. Cir. 1967). http://scholar.
google.com/scholar_case?case=4535353936244583379&hl=en&as_
sdt=6&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr. Detailed explanation of the meaning
of premeditation in homicide law.
Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U.S. 79 (1986). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/476/79/case.html. Peremptory challenges cannot be
used to exclude prospective jurors based on their race.
Brady v. United States, 397 U.S. 742 (1970). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/397/742/case.html. Defendant can be given an
incentive to plead guilty through plea bargaining.
Brogan v. United States, 522 U.S. 398 (1998). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/522/398/case.html.
Example
of
modern
textual interpretation of a criminal statute; also, defendant’s lie in
response to incriminating questions can be used as evidence against
him, because Fifth Amendment privilege must be asserted.
Boyd v. United States, 116 U.S. 616 (1886). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/116/616/case.html. Fourth and Fifth Amendments
work together to protect a zone of privacy against the government.
Cheek v. United States, 498 U.S. 192 (1991). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/498/192/case.html. Defendant can’t be found
guilty of willful violation of federal income tax law if he honestly
believed that the law did not apply to him.
Colorado v. Connelly, 479 U.S. 157 (1986). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/479/157/case.html. Suspect’s confession is
voluntary even though induced by the “voice of God,” because
police didn’t do anything wrong.
United States v. Dotterweich, 320 U.S. 277 (1943). http://supreme.
justia.com/cases/federal/us/320/277/case.html.
Strict
liability
is permitted in a criminal case, if the relevant crime statute
so provides.
385
Bibliography
Regina v. Dudley & Stephens, 14 Q.B.D. 273 (1884). http://cyber.
harvard.edu/eon/ei/elabs/majesty/stephens.htmlk. Famous English
case involving cannibalism on the high seas; court holds that the
necessity defense does not apply to the crime of murder.
Furman v. Georgia, 408 U.S. 238 (1972). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/408/238/case.html. U.S. Supreme Court invalidates
the death penalty under the Eighth Amendment.
Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213 (1983). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/462/213/case.html. Definition of probable cause in
Fourth Amendment law.
Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U.S. 335 (1963). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/372/335/case.html. Famous U.S. Supreme
Court case holding that indigent criminal defendants have
a constitutional right to receive defense counsel at state expense.
People v. Goetz, 68 N.Y.2d 96 (1986). http://scholar.google.com/
scholar_case?case=8047552572288725205&hl=en&as_sdt=6&as_
vis=1&oi=scholarr. Famous NYC “Subway Vigilante” case involving
shooting of black teenagers who asked defendant for money.
Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U.S. 153 (1976). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/428/153/.
U.S.
Supreme
Court
restores
constitutional validity of the death penalty.
Griffin v. California, 380 U.S. 609 (1965). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/380/609/case.html. Prosecutor cannot suggest
to the jury that the defendant’s decision not to take the stand as
a witness in his criminal case is evidence of guilt.
Harmelin v. Michigan, 501 U.S. 957 (1991). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/501/957/. Mandatory sentence of life without
parole for a first offense of possessing 672 grams of cocaine does not
violate the Eighth Amendment.
Bordenkircher v. Hayes, 434 U.S. 357 (1978). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/434/357/case.html. Defendant who declines to
enter a guilty plea in the context of plea bargaining can be given
a harsher sentence after being convicted at trial.
386
Law School for Everyone
Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347 (1967). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/389/347/case.html. Scope of the Fourth
Amendment is based on privacy, not property rights; Justice
Harlan’s concurring opinion establishes the “reasonable expectation
of privacy” test for Fourth Amendment searches.
Commonwealth v. Liebenow, 470 Mass. 151 (2014). http://scholar.
google.com/scholar_case?case=2828790002348072830&hl=en&
as_sdt=6&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr. Defendant cannot be convicted
of theft of construction materials if he honestly believed that the
materials were abandoned.
United States v. Lopez, 514 U.S. 549 (1995). http://supreme.
justia.com/cases/federal/us/514/549/case.html.
Federal
Gun
Free School Zones Act exceeds congressional power under the
Commerce Clause.
Mayes v. People, 106 Ill. 306 (1883). http://h2o.law.harvard.edu/
cases/1773. Example of “abandoned and malignant heart” seconddegree murder.
Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436 (1966). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/384/436/. Famous U.S. Supreme Court case
requiring warnings to be given by police to arrested suspects.
Mobley v. State, 132 So. 3d 1160 (2014). http://www.3dca.flcourts.
org/Opinions/3D13-1566.op.pdf. Florida case where defendant is
found not guilty of homicide crime due to stand-your-ground law.
Morissette v. United States, 342 U.S. 246 (1952). http://supreme.
justia.com/cases/federal/us/342/246/case.html. U.S. Supreme Court
case discussing mens rea in criminal cases; defendant cannot be
convicted of theft of federal government property if he honestly
believed that the property was abandoned.
Minnesota v. Murphy, 465 U.S. 420 (1984). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/465/420/case.html.
Defendant’s
truthful
answers to incriminating questions can be used as evidence against
him, because Fifth Amendment privilege must be asserted.
387
Bibliography
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U.S. 45 (1932). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/287/45/case.html. Famous “Scottsboro Seven” case;
the state’s failure to appoint defense counsel for capital defendants
was, under the circumstances, a denial of due process.
Ratzlaf v. United States, 510 U.S. 135 (1994). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/510/135/. Defendant can’t be found guilty of
violating federal bank reporting law if he was unaware that the law
applied to him.
Florida v. Riley, 488 U.S. 445 (1989). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/488/445/case.html. U.S. Supreme Court holds that
flying over a home to look for illegal drugs is not a “search” within
the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.
Robertson v. Commonwealth, 82 S.W.3d 832 (2002). http://www.
leagle.com/decision/200291482SW3d832_1911/ROBERTSON%20
v.%20COM. Defendant whose behavior led a police officer to fall to
his death from a high bridge was the cause of the officer’s death, and
therefore guilty of a homicide crime.
Salinas v. Texas, 133 S. Ct. 2174 (2013). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/570/12-246/. Defendant’s silence in response to
incriminating questions can be used as evidence against him,
because Fifth Amendment privilege must be asserted.
Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551 (2005). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/543/551/. Death penalty is unconstitutional,
under the Eighth Amendment, as applied to crimes committed
by juveniles.
Staples v. United States, 511 U.S. 600 (1994). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/511/600/case.html. In federal criminal cases,
defendant must be aware of the facts that make his conduct a crime.
Brigham City v. Stuart, 547 U.S. 398 (2006). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/547/398/. Police can enter a home, even
without a warrant or probable cause of a crime, if they reasonably
believe that entry is necessary to protect a person from bodily injury.
388
Law School for Everyone
Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968). http://supreme.justia.com/cases/
federal/us/392/1/case.html. Police can stop persons whom the police
reasonably suspect is committing, or about to commit, a crime;
police can also frisk if there is reasonable suspicion of a weapon.
Berghuis v. Thompkins, 560 U.S. 370 (2010). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/560/08-1470/. U.S. Supreme Court case that
changes the application of Miranda by holding that an arrested
suspect’s silence is not an assertion of Miranda rights, and that the
suspect’s answer to an interrogator’s question can be an implied
waiver of Miranda rights.
Trop v. Dulles, 356 U.S. 86 (1958). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/356/86/case.html#93. Loss of U.S. citizenship is
a punishment that violates the Eighth Amendment.
In re V.V., 51 Cal. 4th 1020 (2011). http://scocal.stanford.edu/
opinion/re-vv-33976. Two juveniles are held to be guilty of arson for
throwing firecrackers that cause a brush fire; detailed explanation of
malice in criminal law.
State v. Varszegi, 33 Conn. App. 368 (1993). http://scholar.
google.com/scholar_case?case=11607783415353985696&hl=en
&as_sdt=6&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr. Defendant landlord cannot
be convicted of theft of deadbeat tenant’s property if he honestly
believed that the property legally belonged to him.
Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668 (1984). http://supreme.
justia.com/cases/federal/us/466/668/case.html. U.S. Supreme Court
case defining the meaning of “effective assistance of counsel” as
guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment.
Watts v Indiana, 338 U.S. 49 (1949). http://supreme.justia.com/
cases/federal/us/338/49/case.html. Defendant’s confession was
involuntary because it was produced by prolonged interrogation
under harsh conditions; Justice Jackson’s separate opinion discussed
the tension between due process and the protection of society
from crime.
389
Bibliography
Commonwealth v. Welansky, 316 Mass. 383 (1944). http://masscases.
com/cases/sjc/316/316mass383.html.
Example
of
involuntary
manslaughter.
United States v. White, 401 U.S. 745 (1971). http://supreme.
justia.com/cases/federal/us/401/745/case.html.
Defendant
lacks
a reasonable expectation of privacy that his trusted friend won’t
be cooperating with the police by wearing a wire; Justice Harlan’s
dissenting opinion explains that reasonableness should be viewed
normatively, not empirically.
Wickard v. Filburn, 317 U.S. 111 (1942). http://supreme.justia.
com/cases/federal/us/317/111/case.html. U.S. Supreme Court holds
that the Commerce Clause authorizes Congress to regulate
intrastate commercial activity, as long as it has an effect on
interstate commerce.
Other Materials
Abramson, Jeffrey. We, the Jury: The Jury System and the Ideal of
Democracy. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press,
2000. A defense of the American jury system as a manifestation
of democracy, with proposals for reform that include elimination
of the peremptory challenge and honest use of jury nullification.
Allen, Ronald J. “The Misguided Defenses of Miranda v. Arizona.”
5 Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law 205 (2007). http://moritzlaw.
osu.edu/students/groups/osjcl/files/2012/05/Allen-PDF.pdf. A legal
and philosophical critique of the U.S. Supreme Court’s famous
Miranda decision, written in response to Professor Kamisar’s
defense of Miranda in the same volume.
Bedau, Hugo Adam. Debating the Death Penalty: Should America
Have Capital Punishment? Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2005.
Edited book containing a balanced presentation by seven leading
experts of the legal, moral, and practical arguments for and against
capital punishment.
390
Law School for Everyone
Bodenhamer, David J., and James W. Ely, Jr. The Bill of Rights
in Modern America. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University
Press, 2008. Edited book contains scholarly chapters on the rights
of criminal suspects (Chapter 7, by David J. Bodenhamer); police
practices (Chapter 8, by Laurence A. Benner and Michal R. Belknap);
the Eighth Amendment’s “cruel and unusual punishments” clause
(Chapter 9, by Joseph L. Hoffmann); and the right to privacy
(Chapter 11, by Ken I. Kersch).
Bradley, Craig M. “Two Models of the Fourth Amendment.”
83 Michigan Law Review 1468 (1985). http://www.repository.law.
indiana.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1860&context=facpub.
An influential article analyzing the U.S. Supreme Court’s modern
jurisprudence of the Fourth Amendment, with an emphasis on the
distinction between bright-line rules based on the warrant clause
and the “no lines” approach based on the reasonableness clause.
Bradley, Craig M., and Joseph L. Hoffmann. “Public Perception,
Justice, and the ‘Search for Truth’ in Criminal Cases.” 69 Southern
California Law Review 1267 (1996). http://www.repository.law.
indiana.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1509&context=facpub.
An analysis of the various ways that due process and the “search for
truth” conflict in criminal cases.
Fisher, George. Plea Bargaining’s Triumph: A History of Plea
Bargaining in America. Palo Alto: Stanford University Press,
2004. A historical study of how plea bargaining gradually came to
dominate the American criminal justice system.
Fletcher, George P. A Crime of Self-Defense. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1988. Book describing and analyzing the Bernhard
Goetz case, from the perspective of a law professor who sat with the
defense team during the trial.
Friedman, Lawrence M. Crime and Punishment in American
History. New York: Basic Books, 1994. A panoramic history of
the American criminal justice system, entertainingly written by
a Stanford law professor for a general audience.
391
Bibliography
Fuller, Lon L. “The Case of the Speluncean Explorers.” 62 Harvard
Law Review 616 (1949). http://fs2.american.edu/dfagel/www/
Class%20Readings/Fuller/TheCaseOfTheSpelunceanExplorers.
pdf. Hypothetical court case involving cannibalism; in the various
case opinions, Professor Fuller summarizes the arguments for
and against broad judicial discretion to interpret the meaning of
criminal statutes.
Goodman, James. Stories of Scottsboro. New York: Vintage Books,
1995. A rich historical account by a Harvard historian of the
Scottsboro, Alabama, capital rape case, which led to the U.S.
Supreme Court’s 1932 decision in Powell v. Alabama.
Hamilton, Alexander, James Madison, and John Jay. The Federalist
Papers. New York: Bantam Classics, 1982. The “Bible” of American
federalism; a series of essays written by Hamilton, Madison, and Jay
in support of ratification of the United States Constitution.
Heumann, Milton. Plea Bargaining: The Experiences of Prosecutors,
Judges, and Defense Attorneys. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1978. The best empirical study of plea bargaining-how it
works, how lawyers learn to do it, and why lawyers and judges love
it (even though society hates it)-based on interviews conducted in
New Haven, Connecticut.
Hoffmann, Joseph L. “On the Perils of Line-Drawing: Juveniles and
the Death Penalty.” 40 Hastings Law Journal 229 (1989). http://www.
repository.law.indiana.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1900&conte
xt=facpub. Article explaining the philosophical arguments for and
against using bright-line rules to determine eligibility for the death
penalty based on age.
Kamisar, Yale. “On the Fortieth Anniversary of the Miranda Case:
Why We Needed It, How We Got It-and What Happened to It.”
5 Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law 163 (2007). http://repository.
law.umich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1259&context=articles.
A defense of the U.S. Supreme Court’s Miranda decision, by a law
professor who’s often called the “father of Miranda” because of his
influential scholarship on the subject.
392
Law School for Everyone
Kelman, Mark. “Interpretive Construction in the Substantive
Criminal Law.” 33 Stanford Law Review 591 (1981). http://www.
law.upenn.edu/institutes/cerl/conferences/actiolibera/reading/
Interpretive%20Construction%20(Kelman).pdf.
An
extremely
innovative article explaining how criminal law depends on certain
interpretive choices-on such fundamental matters as causation
and free will-that often are made unconsciously or subconsciously
by judges, but that effectively determine the outcome of individual
criminal cases.
King, Nancy J., and Joseph L. Hoffmann. Habeas for the Twenty-First
Century. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2011. A historical
and legal analysis of the writ of habeas corpus, which has been used
by judges since the days of Magna Carta to free those wrongfully
imprisoned and restore the proper balance of governmental powers.
Lewis, Anthony. Gideon’s Trumpet. New York: Vintage Books, 1989.
The famous book, later turned into a movie, recounting the story of
Clarence Gideon and his fight to establish the federal constitutional
right to appointed counsel for indigent criminal defendants in state
criminal cases.
Percy, Elise J., Joseph L. Hoffmann, and Steven J. Sherman. “‘Sticky
Metaphors’ and the Persistence of the Traditional Voluntary
Manslaughter Doctrine.” 44 University of Michigan Journal of Law
Reform 383 (2011). http://repository.law.umich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.
cgi?article=1096&context=mjlr. Article discussing the complicated
reasons why the criminal law continues to provide some defendants
with a partial defense to murder when they kill in the “heat of
passion,” but refuses to extend the defense to other similarly
situated defendants.
Simpson, A.W. Brian. Cannibalism and the Common Law. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1984. A complete and fascinating
historical account of the 1884 sinking of the Mignonette and the
famous murder case, Regina v. Dudley & Stephens, to which it
gave rise.
393
Bibliography
Stuntz, William J. The Collapse of American Criminal Justice.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: Belknap Press, 2011. A sweeping
historical and critical analysis of the American criminal justice
system, written for a general audience by one of the most insightful
modern scholars of criminal law and criminal procedure.
Civil Procedure
Abramson, Jeffrey. We, the Jury. Cambridge: Harvard University
Press, 2000. This book provides an overview and defense of our
jury system. It considers many cases from American history to raise
fundamental questions about the role and value of the jury.
Adams, Charles. “World-Wide Volkswagen v. Woodson-The Rest of
the Story.” Nebraska Law Review 72 (1993): 1122-1156. This article
provides the background for the Supreme Court case of World-Wide
Volkswagen v. Woodson.
Bone, Robert. “Plausibility Pleading Revisited and Revised:
A Comment on Ashcroft v. Iqbal.” Notre Dame Law Review 85
(2010): 849-885. This article discusses the new standard for
pleading, which the Supreme Court announced in a case called
Ashcroft v. Iqbal.
Brennan, Jr., William. “Reason, Passion, and ‘The Progress of
the Law.’” Cardozo Law Review 10 (1988): 3-24. In this lecture,
Justice Brennan discusses his opinion for the Supreme Court in
Goldberg v. Kelly.
Carrington, Paul. “Renovating Discovery.” Alabama Law Review 49
(1997): 51-78. This article suggests some reforms for the system of
pretrial discovery.
---. “‘Substance’ and ‘Procedure’ in the Rules Enabling Act.”
Duke Law Journal (1989): 281-327. This article considers the
distinction between substance and procedure, which (among other
things) is important in deciding whether the state or federal rule
applies in a diversity action in federal court.
394
Law School for Everyone
Clermont, Kevin, ed. Civil Procedure Stories. New York: Thomson/
Foundation Press, 2008. This book includes detailed historical
accounts of many significant Supreme Court cases about
civil procedure.
Clermont, Kevin, and Theodore Eisenberg. “Litigation Realities.”
Cornell Law Review 88 (2002): 119-154. This article summarizes
empirical research about the operation of our litigation system, with
a focus on pretrial practice and settlements.
---. “Litigation Realities Redux.” Notre Dame Law Review 84
(2009): 1919-1974. This article follows up on the previous study
to provide new empirical research about pleading, discovery,
and other topics.
Currie, Brainerd. “Mutuality of Collateral Estoppel: Limits of the
Bernhard Doctrine.” Stanford Law Review 9 (1957): 281-322. This
article considers the potential problems of offensive non-mutual
issue preclusion.
Easterbrook, Frank. “Discovery as Abuse.” Boston University Law
Review 69 (1989): 635-648. This article provides an economic
analysis of discovery, arguing that it is often used to impose costs
and coerce settlement.
Estreicher, Samuel, and John Sexton. “A Managerial Theory of the
Supreme Court’s Responsibilities: An Empirical Study.” New York
University Law Review 59 (1985): 681-823. This article describes
an empirical study about the Supreme Court’s method of selecting
cases for review.
Fiss, Owen. “Reason in All Its Splendor.” Brooklyn Law Review
56 (1990): 789-804. This article describes and praises the Supreme
Court’s decision in Goldberg v. Kelly.
Flango, Victor. “Litigant Choice between State and Federal Courts.”
South Carolina Law Review 46 (1995): 961-977. This article
discusses the tactical and strategic factors that lawyers consider in
choosing between state and federal courts.
395
Bibliography
Freer, Richard. “Duplicative Litigation: Rethinking Plaintiff
Autonomy and the Court’s Role in Defining the Litigative Unit.”
University of Pittsburgh Law Review 50 (1989): 809-851. This article
addresses the rules governing joinder of claims and parties.
Friendly, Henry. “The Historic Basis of the Diversity Jurisdiction.”
Harvard Law Review 41 (1928): 483-510. Judge Friendly,
a prominent federal court of appeals judge in the middle of the 20th
century, discusses the history of diversity jurisdiction.
Gergen, Mark. “The Jury’s Role in Deciding Normative Issues in the
American Common Law.” Fordham Law Review 68 (1999): 407485. This article considers the jury’s role in decision-making.
Harr, Jonathan. A Civil Action. New York: Random House, 1995.
This popular book is based on the true story of a suit seeking
damages for contaminated water in a mill town in Massachusetts. It
is a gripping read and a terrific overview of how our system of civil
litigation operates in practice.
Higginbotham, Patrick. “Foreword.” Alabama Law Review 49
(1997): 1-6. Judge Higginbotham provides some thoughts about the
key issues in formulating rules of discovery.
Issacharoff, Samuel. Civil Procedure. New York: Thomson Reuters/
Foundation Press, 2012. This book provides an excellent overview of
the themes and doctrines of a course in civil procedure.
Issacharoff, Samuel, and George Loewenstein. “Second Thoughts
About Summary Judgment.” Yale Law Journal 100 (1990): 73-119.
This article provides an economic analysis of summary judgment
and considers the extent to which the device encourages parties
to settle lawsuits.
Kane, Mary Kay. “Original Sin and the Transaction in Federal Civil
Procedure.” Texas Law Review 76 (1998): 1723-1747. This article
considers the most common test applied to determine when two
claims must be asserted in one lawsuit.
396
Law School for Everyone
Lessig, Lawrence. “An Essay on Context in Interpretive Theory.”
Harvard Law Review 110 (1997): 1785-1812. This article considers
the shadow that the Supreme Court’s decision in Erie Railroad Co. v.
Tompkins casts on our law.
Maltz, Earl. “Unraveling the Conundrum of the Law of Personal
Jurisdiction: A Comment on Asahi Metal Industry Co. v. Superior
Ct. of California.” Duke Law Review (1987): 669-691. This article
discusses the Supreme Court’s decision in the Asahi case.
Miller, Arthur. “The Pretrial Rush to Judgment: Are the ‘Litigation
Explosion,’ ‘Liability Crisis,’ and Efficiency Clichés Eroding Our
Day in Court and Jury Trial Commitments?” New York University
Law Review 73 (2003): 982-1134. This article addresses the
ongoing controversy over whether summary judgment and related
mechanisms are inconsistent with our commitment to trial by jury.
Mullenix, Linda. “The Pervasive Myth of Pervasive Discovery Abuse:
The Sequel.” Boston College Law Review 39 (1998): 683-689. This
article responds to critics of discovery, including Judge Easterbrook.
Najam, Jr., Edward. “Caught in the Middle: The Role of State
Intermediate Appellate Courts.” Indiana Law Review 35 (2002):
329-333. This article discusses the role of state appellate courts.
Perdue, Wendy. “Sin, Scandal, and Substantive Due Process: Personal
Jurisdiction and Pennoyer Reconsidered.” Washington Law Review
62 (1987): 479-520. This article provides colorful background about
the famous Supreme Court case of Pennoyer v. Neff.
Reinert, Alexander. “Measuring the Impact of Plausibility Pleading.”
Virginia Law Review 101 (2015): 2117-2183. This article describes an
empirical study that measured the impact of the new standard for
pleading on trial courts’ willingness to dismiss complaints at the
outset of a suit.
Scalia, Antonin. “The Rule of Law as a Law of Rules.” University
of Chicago Law Review 56 (1989): 1175-1188. In this short article,
Justice Scalia explains the difference between rules and standards,
and praises rules for their capacity to constrain judges’ discretion.
397
Bibliography
Shapiro, David. Civil Procedure: Preclusion in Civil Actions. New
York: Foundation Press, 2001. This book provides a detailed
overview of the rules governing issue and claim preclusion, which
together govern when a matter can be relitigated.
Sullivan, Kathleen. “The Justices of Rules and Standards.” Harvard
Law Review 106 (1992): 22-123. This article addresses the difference
between rules and standards, and explains how Supreme Court
doctrine sometimes embraces the former and other times embraces
the latter.
Wald, Patricia. “Summary Judgment at Sixty.” Texas Law Review 76
(1997): 1897-1945. In this article, Judge Wald provides an overview
of the rules governing summary judgment, and how the device
operates in practice.
Torts
Cases:
Applbaum ex rel. Applbaum v. Golden Acres Farm and Ranch, 333
F. Supp. 2d 31 (N.D.N.Y. 2004). Discussing New York law voiding
liability waivers for recreational premises.
BMW of North America v. Gore, 517 U.S. 559 (1996). Supreme
Court case establishing constitutional limits on punitive damages.
Bolton v. Stone, [1951] AC 850 (HL). Cricket-ball case.
Byrne v. Boadle, 159 Eng. Rep. 299 (Ex. 1863). Case in which barrel
falls on plaintiff and court invokes res ipsa loquitur.
City of Dallas v. Heard, 252 S.W. 3d 98 (Tex. Ct. App. 2008).
Applying strict liability to an escaped gorilla in the zoo context.
City of Lincoln [1889] AC All ER Rep 272 (Eng.). Causation case in
which navigational equipment on ship is lost.
Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc., 509 U.S. 579 (1993). Supreme
Court case involving whether Bendectin causes birth defects.
398
Law School for Everyone
Erie Railroad v. Stewart, 40 F.2d 855 (6th Cir. 1930). Railroad case in
which crossing guard fails to warn passersby.
Escola v. Coca-Cola Bottling Co., 150 P.2d 436 (1944). Exploding
Coke bottle case in which Justice Traynor proposes strict products
liability in a concurrence.
Fletcher v. Rylands, 159 Eng. Rep. 737 (Ex. 1865). English reservoir
case which became the basis for strict liability for ultrahazardous
activities (lower court opinion).
Fletcher v. Rylands, L.R. 1 Ex. 265 (1866). English reservoir case
which became the basis for strict liability for ultrahazardous
activities (higher court opinion).
Geier v. Am. Honda Motor Co., 529 U.S. 861 (2000). Supreme Court
case about airbags and whether federal regulation preempted state
tort liability.
Gorris v. Scott [1874] 9 L.R. Exch. 125 (Eng.). Case in which sheep
were washed overboard, a harm not within the risk contemplated by
the statute.
Grimshaw v. Ford Motor Co., 174 Cal. Rptr. 348 (Cal. Ct. App. 1981).
Ford Pinto case.
Hammontree v. Jenner, 97 Cal. Rptr. 739 (Cal. App. 1971. Case
dealing with driver that has a seizure.
Heeg v. Licht, 80 N.Y. 579 (N.Y. 1880). Case effectively imposing
strict liability when a powder magazine exploded.
Helling v. Carey, 519 P.2d 981 (Wash. 1974). Case in which
Washington Supreme Court found that failure to use glaucoma
“puff” test failed cost-benefit analysis under BPL.
In re Polemis & Furness, Withy & Co. Ltd. [1921] AC All E.R Rep
40 (Eng.). Case involving harm not within the risk in which court
establishes directness test.
Ira S. Bushey & Sons, Inc. v. United States, 398 F.2d 167 (2d Cir.
1968). Vicarious liability case with drunken sailor on a dry dock.
399
Bibliography
Jacque v. Steenberg Homes, 563 N.W.2d 154 (Wis. 1997). Punitivedamages case in which defendant drove across plaintiff’s field
despite plaintiff’s refusal to grant permission.
Kingston v. Chi. & N.W. Ry., 211 N.W. 913 (Wis. 1927). Causation
case involving two fires that combine.
Kline v. 1500 Mass. Ave. Apartment Corp., 439 F.2d 477 (D.C.
Cir. 1970). Duty case involving mugging in common area of an
apartment building.
Lamson v. American Axe & Tool Co., 58 N.E. 585 (Mass. 1900).
Assumption of risk involving falling axes.
Liebeck
v.
McDonald’s
Restaurants,
No.
CV-93-02419,
1995 WL 360309 (N.M. Dist. Ct. August 18, 1994. Original
McDonald’s coffee case.
MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co., 153 A.D. 474 (Sup. Ct. App. Div.
1912). Lower court opinion in MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.
MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co., 217 N.Y. 382, 111 N.E. 1050
(1916). Products-liability case in which Cardozo abolishes
privity requirement.
Madsen v. E. Jordan Irr. Co., 125 P.2d 794 (Utah 1942).
Ultrahazardous harm not within the risk in situation involving
minks eating their young.
Martin v. Herzog, 126 N.E. 814 (N.Y. 1920). Negligence per se in
which car does not have headlights.
Mathias v. Accor Economy Lodging, Inc., 347 F.3d 672 (7th Cir.
2003). Punitive damages case involving bedbugs.
McDermott v. Carie, LLC, 2005 MT 293, 329 Mont. 295, 124 P.3d
168 (2005). Liability-waiver case at a dude ranch.
Murphy v. Steeplechase Amusement Co., 166 N.E. 173 (N.Y. 1929).
Assumption-of-risk case with the Flopper.
400
Law School for Everyone
Nelson v. American-West African Line, 86 F.2d 730 (2d Cir. 1936).
Vicarious liability case involving workplace violence.
Osorio v. One World Technologies, Inc., 659 F. 3d 81 (1st Cir. 2011).
Products-liability case involving table saws and flesh-sensing
technology.
Overseas Tankship (U.K.) Ltd. v. Morts Dock and Eng’g. Co. Ltd.
(The Wagon Mound) (1961) 34 ALJR 451 (Austl.). Case establishing
foreseeability test for harm not within the risk.
Palsgraf v. Long Island R.R. Co., 162 N.E. 99 (N.Y. 1928). Legal
causation case with fireworks in a train station.
Palsgraf v. Long Island R.R. Co., 225 N.Y.S. 412 (N.Y. App. Div.
1927). Legal causation case with fireworks in a train station (lower
court opinion).
Roberts v. Ring, 143 Minn. 151 (1919). Negligence case involving
elderly driver and child victim.
Ryan v. N.Y. Ctr. R.R., 35 N.Y. 210 (1866). Legal causation case
involving spreading-fire hypothetical.
Rylands v. Fletcher L.R. 3 H.L. 330 (1868). English reservoir case that
became the basis for strict liability for ultrahazardous sactivities.
Schwab v. Philip Morris USA, 449 F. Supp. 2d 992 (E.D.N.Y. 2006).
Light-cigarette fraud litigation.
State v. Stanko, 974 P.2d 1132 (Mont. 1998). Case invalidating
Montana’s reasonable speed limit.
Summers v. Tice, 199 P.2d 1 (Cal. 1948). Causation case that
established alternate-liability doctrine.
The T.J. Hooper v. N. Barge Corp. (In re E. Transp. Co.), 60 F.2d
737 (2d Cir. 1932). Negligence case in which Learned Hand rejects
custom as dispositive.
United States v. Carroll Towing Co., 159 F.2d 169 (2d Cir. 1947).
Negligence case in which Learned Hand proposes BPL test.
401
Bibliography
Vaughan v. Menlove, 132 Eng. Rep. 490 (Ct. Com. Pl. 1837).
Negligence case involving spontaneous combustion of haystacks.
Vosburg v. Putney, 56 N.W. 480 (Wis. 1893). Case in which a gentle
kick caused catastrophic damage, demonstrating the eggshellskull rule.
Wagner v. Int’l. Ry. Co., 133 N.E. 437 (N.Y. 1921). Causation case in
which Cardozo coins the phrase “danger invites rescue.”
Yaconi v. Brady & Gioe, Inc., 158 N.E. 876 (N.Y. 1927). Assumptionof-risk case.
Yania v. Bigan 155 A.2d 343 (Pa. 1959). Duty case in which defendant
encouraged plaintiff to jump into water.
Zelenko v. Gimbel Bros., 247 App. Div. 867 (N.Y. App. Div. 1936).
Duty case in which defendant tendered negligent aid.
Zuchowicz v. U.S., 140 F.3d 381 (2d Cir. 1998). Causation case in
which no studies existing linking overdose to disease.
Books/Articles
Abraham, Kenneth S. “Rylands v. Fletcher: Tort Law’s Conscience,”
in Torts Stories, ed. Robert L. Rabin and Stephen D. Sugarman
(Foundation Press, 2003). Historical account of Rylands.
---. The Forms and Functions of Tort Law (2012). General review
of tort law.
Allen, Stephanie, and David Harris. “Officers Tell Harrowing Tale
of Catching Elvis the Cobra,” Orlando Sentinel, October 8, 2015.
Article on escaped cobra.
American Law Institute. Restatement (Second) of Torts (1965).
---. Restatement (Third) of Torts: Liability for Physical and
Emotional Harm (2009, 2012).
---. Restatement (Third) of Torts: Products Liability (1997).
402
Law School for Everyone
Barchenger, Stacey. “Family Sues Amazon after Hoverboard Fire
Destroys $1M House,” The Tennessean, October 27, 2016. Describing
hoverboard dangers.
Baty, Thomas. Vicarious Liability. Oxford: 1916. Early work on
vicarious liability.
Berenson, Alex. “Merck Agrees to Settle Vioxx Suits for $4.85
Billion,” N.Y. Times, November 9, 2007 (article on Vioxx settlement).
Berger, Margaret A. “Eliminating General Causation: Notes
Towards a New Theory of Justice and Toxic Torts,” 97 Colum. L.
Rev. 2117 (1997). Proposing doing away with general causation as
a requirement to recovery).
Cain, Kevin G. “And Now, the Rest of the Story about the
McDonald’s Coffee Lawsuit,” Houston Lawyer, July/August 2007.
Summarizing facts of McDonald’s coffee case.
Cheng, Edward K. “When 10 Trials Are Better Than 1000: An
Evidentiary Perspective on Trial Sampling,” 160 U. Pa. L. Rev. 955
(2012). Discussing the use of sampling to make mass litigation
manageable.
Cohen, Thomas H., and Kyle Harbacek. “Punitive Damage Awards
in State Courts,” Bureau of Justice Statistics (2005). Empirical study
of punitive-damages awards.
Dobbs, Dan B., et al. The Law of Torts (2011). A comprehensive
treatise on the law of torts.
Geistfeld, Mark. “Escola v. Coca Cola Bottling Co.: Strict Products
Liability Unbound,” in Torts Stories, ed. Robert L. Rabin and Stephen
D. Sugarman (Foundation Press, 2003). Historical account of Escola.
George, Tracey E., and Suzanna Sherry. What Every Law Student
Really Needs to Know: An Introduction to the Study of Law. Aspen,
2009. Introductory text for law students that discusses the process of
legal development and legal analysis.
Giliker, Paula. Vicarious Liability in Tort. Cambridge: 2011. Modern
discussion of vicarious liability.
403
Bibliography
Henderson, James A. “MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.: Simplifying
the Facts While Reshaping the Law,” in Torts Stories, ed. Robert
L. Rabin and Stephen D. Sugarman (Foundation Press, 2003).
Historical account of MacPherson.
Henderson, James A., Jr., and Aaron D. Twerski. “A Proposed
Revision of Section 402A of the Restatement (Second) of Torts,” 77
Cornell L. Rev. 1512 (1992). Discussion by co-reporters addressing
products-liability provisions of the Third Restatement of Torts.
Holmes, Oliver Wendell, Jr. “Agency,” 4 Harv. L. Rev. 345 (1891).
Early discussion of vicarious liability.
Horwitz, Morton J. The Transformation of American Law, 17801860. Harvard University Press, 1979. A classic account of the
development of tort law, in which the author develops the subsidy
thesis for negligence.
---. The Transformation of American Law, 1860-1960. Oxford:
1992. Volume two of Horwitz’s historical account of tort law.
“How Risky Is the Contraceptive Pill?” BBC, December 12, 2016.
Discussing dangers of contraceptive pills.
Huber, Peter W. Liability: The Legal Revolution and Its Consequences.
Basic, 1988. Classic work in the tort-reform movement.
Hull, Dana, and Margaret Cronin Fisk. “Tesla Cranks Up Pressure
to End Ban on Direct Auto Sales,” Bloomberg, September 22, 2016.
Article discussing the ban on direct-to-consumer sales of cars.
Kaufman, Andrew. Cardozo (1998). Perhaps the definitive biography
of Justice Benjamin Cardozo.
Kirkland, Anna. The Vaccine Court: The Law and Politics of Injury.
New York University Press, 2016. Describing the operation of the
Vaccine Court.
Laski, Harold. “The Basis of Vicarious Liability,” 26 Yale L.J. 105
(1916). Early discussion of vicarious liability.
404
Law School for Everyone
Latane, Bibb, and John M. Darley. The Unresponsive Bystander:
Why Doesn’t He Help? (1970). Psychological treatment of the Kitty
Genovese case.
Maloney, Pamela C., “Florida District Court: Feasibility of Flesh
Detection Technology Cuts Off Table Saw Maker’s Objection to
Damage Award,” AboveTheLaw.com, November 2015 (discussion of
table-saw products-liability case.
Noonan, John T., Jr. The Passengers of Palsgraf, in Persons and Masks
of the Law. University of California Press, 1976. Historical account
of Palsgraf.
Polenburg, Richard. The World of Benjamin Cardozo: Personal
Values and the Judicial Process (1997). Another comprehensive
biography of Cardozo.
“Recent History of Highway Speed Limits in Montana,” Independent
Record, Nov. 30, 2014. Discussion of Montana speed limit.
Robbennolt, Jennifer K. “Determining Punitive Damages: Empirical
Insights and Implications for Reform,” 50 Buffalo L. Rev. 103 (2002).
Broad discussion about punitive damages.
Robinson, Paul H. Criminal Law: Cases and Controversies. Aspen,
2008. Includes discussion of Ford Pinto case.
Sanson, Colleen K. “Avoiding Effect of Recreational Activity
Liability Release,” 154 Am. Jur. Proof of Facts 3d 89 (2016).
Discussing liability waivers in recreational activities.
Simons, Kenneth W. “Murphy v. Steeplechase Amusement Co.:
While the Timorous Stay at Home, the Adventurous Ride the
Flopper,” in Torts Stories, ed. Robert L. Rabin and Stephen D.
Sugarman (Foundation Press, 2003). Historical account of Murphy.
Simpson, A. W. B. “Legal Liability for Bursting Reservoirs: The
Historical Context of Rylands v. Fletcher,” 13 J. Legal Stud. 209
(1984). Historical account of Rylands.
405
Bibliography
Standen, Jeffrey. “Assumption of Risk in NFL Concussion Litigation:
The Offhand Empiricism of the Courtroom,” 8 FIU L. Rev. 71 (2012).
Discussion of NFL concussion litigation.
Strassfeld, Robert N. “Taking Another Ride on the Flopper:
Benjamin Cardozo, Safe Space, and the Cultural Significance of
Coney Island,” 25 Cardozo L. Rev. 2189 (2004). Describing the
Flopper case.
Tavernese, Sabrina. “Man Who Kept Tiger in Apartment Gets
5-Month Jail Term,” N.Y. Times, October 8, 2004. Article about tiger
kept in residential apartment.
White, G. Edward. Tort Law in America: An Intellectual History.
Oxford, 2003. Includes historical treatment of vicarious liability.
Wilson, Kurt. “Remember ‘Reasonable and Prudent’? Speed Limits
Long Controversial in Montana,” Missoulian, November 24, 2014.
Article on Montana’s reasonable speed limit.
Wood, Keith. “Bird Hunting Etiquette,” American Hunter,
September 10, 2012. Discussion of quail-hunting techniques.
406
Law School for Everyone
4
Public Domain/wikimedia
6
(c)alancrosthwaite/iStock/Thinkstock
9
(c)Comstock/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
11
(c)ihorzigor/iStock/Thinkstock
12
(c)XiXinXing/iStock/Thinkstock
15
(c)Keith Brofsky/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
19
Public Domain/wikimedia/CC BY 3.0
20
(c)Tom Schmucker/Hemera/Thinkstock
23
(c)AlexRaths/iStock/Thinkstock
27
(c)LisLud/iStock/Thinkstock (c)ihorzigor/iStock/Thinkstock
28
(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock (c)artisticco/iStock/Thinkstock
31
(c)Vallentin/iStock/Thinkstock
33
(c)junial/iStock/Thinkstock
37
(c)Wavebreakmedia/iStock/Thinkstock
38
(c)Comstock/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
41
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
44
(c)LisLud/istock/Thinkstock (c)aelitta/iStock/Thinkstock
47
(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock
50
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
53
(c)junial/iStock/Thinkstock
54
(c)aelitta/iStcok/Thinkstock (c)LisLud/iStock/Thinkstock
59
(c)Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
61
(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock
62
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
65
(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock - (c)artisticco/iStock/Thinkstock
67
(c)Wavebreakmedia/iStock/Thinkstock
68
(c)Wavebreakmedia/iStock/Thinkstock
70
Public Domain/wikimedia/CC BY-SA 3.0
75
Public Domain/wikimedia/CC BY-SA 2.0
79
(c)tupungato/istock/Thinkstock
80
Public Domain/wikimedia
80
Public Domain/wikimedia
81
Public Domain/Library of Congress
81
Public Domain/wikimedia
IMAGE CREDITS
407
Image Credits
82
FDR Presidential Library Museum/flickr/CC BY 2.0
84
(c)Danielrao/iStock/Thinkstock (c)bpperry/iStock/Thinkstock
92
(c)PatrickPoendl/iStock/Thinkstock
95
(c)Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
96
(c)sebboy12/iStock/Thinkstock
97
Public Domain/wikimedia
100
Public Domain/wikimedia
101
(c)Askold Romanov/iStcok/Thinkstock -(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock
(c)RadomanDurkovic/iStock/Thinkstock
103
(c)Comstock/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
104
Public Domain/wikimedia
107
(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock (c)Askold Romanov/iStock/Thinkstock
109
(c)Scorpion_PL/iStock/Thinkstock
111
(c)IPGGutenbergUKLtd/iStock/Thinkstock
114
Public Domain/Library of Congress
117
(c)violet-blue/iStock/Thinkstock
119
(c)Marina Bartel/iStock/Thinkstock
120
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
123
(c)Wavebreakmedia Ltd/Wavebreak Media/Thinkstock
124
(c)carlballou/iStock/Thinkstock
126
(c)nazlisart/iStock/Thinkstock
127
Public Domain/Library of Congress
128
(c)tupungato/iStock/Thinkstock
131
Public Domain/wikimedia/CC BY 2.0
132
(c)NoDerog/iStock/Thinkstock
135
Public Domain/wikimedia
135
Public Domain/wikimedia
137
(c)Niran_pr/iStock/Thinkstock
139
(c)LisLud/istock/Thinkstock (c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock
(c)Vallentin/iStock/Thinkstock (c)PandaVector/iStock/Thinkstock
(c)aleksei-veprev/iStock/Thinkstock -
142
(c)danielfela/iStock/Thinkstock
144
(c)Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Thinkstock
145
Public Domain/wikimedia
147
(c)RichLegg/iStock/Thinkstock
150
(c)bluegame/iStock/Thinkstock
154
(c)Mihajlo Maricic/iStock/Thinkstock
408
Law School for Everyone
156
Public Domain/Library of Congress
158
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
161
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock (c)kzenon/iStock/Thinkstock
163
(c)Jeremy Woodhouse/bldJW_052005_012
166
(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock
167
Public Domain/wikimedia
169
(c)KatarzynaBialasiewicz/iStock/Thinkstock
173
(c)oneword/iStock/Thinkstock
175
(c)Askold Romanov/istock/Thinkstock (c)macrovector/istock/Thinkstock
176
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
179
(c)BrianAJackson/iStock/Thinkstock
180
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
183
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
192
(c)nd3000/iStock/Thinkstock
195
(c)monstArrr_/iStock/Thinkstock
196
(c)germi_p/iStock/Thinkstock
198
(c)praisaeng/iStock/Thinkstock
201
(c)LisLud/istock/Thinkstock
202
(c)Koele/iStock/Thinkstock
204
Public Domain/wikimedia
205
(c)Klaus Tiedge/Blend Images/Thinkstock
206
(c)Ljupco/iStock/Thinkstock
209
Public Domain/wikimedia/CC BY 2.0
210
(c)AndreyPopov/iStock/Thinkstock
212
(c)RobertCrum/iStock/Thinkstock
215
(c)XXLPhoto/iStock/Thinkstock
216
(c)LSOphoto/iStock/Thinkstock
218
(c)mj0007/iStock/Thinkstock
221
(c)olm26250/iStock/Thinkstock
223
Wellcome Library, London/CC BY 4.0
224
(c)pyotr021/iStock/Thinkstock
226
(c)Jack Hollingsworth/Photodisc/Thinkstock
227
Public Domain/wikimedia
229
(c)macrovector/iStock/Thinkstock (c)pressureUA/iStock/Thinkstock
(c)LisLud/istock/Thinkstock
231
(c)Comstock Images/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
232
(c)jmccurley51/iStock/Thinkstock
409
Image Credits
234
(c)fstopphotography/iStock/Thinkstock
237
(c)KatarinaGondova/iStock/Thinkstock
238
(c)AVAVA/iStock/Thinkstock
243
(c)DreamPictures/Blend Images/Thinkstock
245
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock
249
(c)Ingram Publishing/Thinkstock
252
(c)Hemera Technologies/PhotoObjects.net/Thinkstock
255
(c)YuraDobro/iStock/Thinkstock
256
(c)robertcicchetti/iStock/Thinkstock
259
(c)renaschild/iStock/Thinkstock
264
Public Domain/wikimedia
264
Public Domain/wikimedia
266
(c)Image Source/DigitalVision/Thinkstock
269
(c)gyn9038/iStock/Thinkstock
272
Public Domain/wikimedia/CC BY-SA 3.0
274
(c)Wavebreakmedia/iStock/Thinkstock
276
(c)leoaleks/iStcok/Thinkstock
278
(c)IPGGutenbergUKLtd/iStock/Thinkstock
285
(c)Wavebreakmedia/iStock/Thinkstock
286
Public Domain/Library of Congress
289
(c)PrasongTakham/iStock/Thinkstock
291
(c)Ljupco/iStock/Thinkstock
292
(c)IakovKalinin/iStock/Thinkstock
294
(c)NA/AbleStock.com/Thinkstock
295
(c)Creatas Images/Creatas/Thinkstock
299
(c)romrodinka/iStock/Thinkstock
300
Public Domain/Library of Congress
301
(c)aerogondo/iStock/Thinkstock
302
(c)Pixel_away/iStock/Thinkstock
303
(c)WonderlandProductions/iStock/Thinkstock
304
(c)thiroil/iStock/Thinkstock
(c)Wavebreakmedia Ltd/Wavebreak Media/Thinkstock
305
(c)Michael Blann/DigitalVision/Thinkstock
307
(c)sodapix sodapix/Model released/Thinkstock
309
(c)KaraGrubis/iStock/Thinkstock
310
Public Domain/wikimedia
313
(c)Radist/iStock/Thinkstock
410
Law School for Everyone
316
(c)Majorching/iStock/Thinkstock
317
(c)alexskopje/iStock/Thinkstock
319
Public Domain/Library of Congress
322
Public Domain/wikimedia
324
(c)Purestock/Thinkstcok
326
(c)firina/iStock/Thinkstock
328
Public Domain/Library of Congress
329
Public Domain/wikimedia
332
(c)KatarzynaBialasiewicz/iStock/Thinkstock
334
(c)Purestock/Thinkstcok
336
(c)Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
338
(c)monticelllo/iStock/Thinkstock
341
(c)gregepperson/iStock/Thinkstock
342
(c)kaarsten/iStock/Thinkstock
344
(c)gpointstudio/iStock/Thinkstock
345
Public Domain/Library of Congress
348
(c)adogslifephoto/iStock/Thinkstock
350
(c)Vladimir Surkov/iStock/Thinkstock
351
(c)joegolby/iStock/Thinkstock
352
(c)nito100/iStock/Thinkstock
355
(c)weerapatkiatdumrong/iStock/Thinkstock
356
Public Domain/Library of Congress
357
Public Domain/Library of Congress
358
(c)Filipovic018/iStock/Thinkstock
360
(c)HSNPhotography/iStock/Thinkstock
364
(c)eestingnef/iStock/Thinkstock (c)mnbb/iStock/Thinkstock
367
(c)diego_cervo/iStock/Thinkstock
368
(c)payphoto/iStock/Thinkstock
371
(c)Highwaystarz-Photography/iStock/Thinkstock
372
(c)Spotmatik/iStock/Thinkstock
374
(c)Thinkstock/Stockbyte/Thinkstock
377
(c)moodboard/moodboard/Thinkstock