172: ■ Course Scope 90 Criminal Law and Procedure C riminal law and procedure involve the most basic of conflicts between the awesome power of the government and the fundamental rights of the individual. One of the most important responsibilities of any government is to protect its citizens from those who would transgress society’s rules and norms, and thereby do harm to others. Criminal law is where we identify those rules and norms, and where we set the punishments for those transgressions. No two cases are exactly alike, however, so the established rules of criminal law must always be tempered with the discretion to do justice in individual cases. Similarly, the government’s power to investigate and prosecute crimes is one that can easily be misused or abused.
248: The Supreme Court has adopted two special rules to protect average citizens from unfair criminal liability due to overly complicated federal statutes. These rules are much more lenient to federal criminal defendants than most state laws would be. z z The first special rule is that a defendant must know the facts that make his conduct illegal. The second rule provides that in some cases-prosecutions based on complex portions of the federal tax code, for example-an honest mistake about what the law requires can be a defense.
535: In developing tort law, should we prefer bright-line rules, which are easy to apply but rigid, or should we prefer standards, which are flexible and fact-specific, but require considerable discretion? Finally, throughout the course, we will cover some of the most famous cases from law school, the old chestnuts that all lawyers share as part of their common vocabulary. And because fact is often stranger than fiction, you will hear some remarkable and memorable tales. From amusement park rides to unruly fires, hunting accidents to drunken sailors, exploding Coke bottles to pet tigers, the study of torts is chock-full of crazy stories. In everyday life, the world of torts is practically unavoidable.
710: In it, Hart explores the nature of law, drawing a distinction between the core of a rule and the debatable edges of it, which he called the penumbra. His famous example involves imagining a rule prohibiting vehicles in a public park, and then asking whether that rule would extend to bicycles or roller skates. Mauet, Thomas A. Pretrial. New York: Wolters Kluwer Law & Business, 2012. This text guides lawyers through pretrial preparation, including engaging in discovery, filing pretrial motions, and preparing witnesses. It is the classic pretrial preparation guide relied on by many practicing attorneys. 382 Law School for Everyone ---. Trial Techniques and Trials. 9th ed. New York: Wolters Kluwer Law & Business, 2013. This is the standard handbook relied on by attorneys preparing for trial.
748: “The Rule of Law as a Law of Rules.” University of Chicago Law Review 56 (1989): 1175-1188. In this short article, Justice Scalia explains the difference between rules and standards, and praises rules for their capacity to constrain judges’ discretion. 397 Bibliography Shapiro, David. Civil Procedure: Preclusion in Civil Actions. New York: Foundation Press, 2001. This book provides a detailed overview of the rules governing issue and claim preclusion, which together govern when a matter can be relitigated. Sullivan, Kathleen. “The Justices of Rules and Standards.” Harvard Law Review 106 (1992): 22-123. This article addresses the difference between rules and standards, and explains how Supreme Court doctrine sometimes embraces the former and other times embraces the latter. Wald, Patricia.