36: z z When reading a case, you should try to identify the major premise (the rule of law governing the case), the minor premise (the facts particular to your case), and the conclusion (the application of the law to the facts). You must also be sure that the major premise is true. If it isn’t, then your conclusion will be flawed. z z Some legal arguments are based on inductive logic. Reasoning inductively means using a number of specific observations to draw a broad generalization. This can be a useful sort of argument when it’s difficult to prove something. z z If you make an argument based on inductive reasoning, you probably shouldn’t rely only on personal experiences; instead, you would be wiser to draw upon a large number of examples from which to generalize.
149: Logical reasoning is absolutely critical. z z Basic legal argumentation usually follows the form of an Aristotelian syllogism: a major premise and a minor premise point the way to a conclusion (if A and B are true, then C must be true). In a legal brief, the major premise is the rule of law governing the case, the minor premise is the facts particular to the case, and the conclusion is the application of the law to the facts. 75 Lecture 11- Understanding the Appellate Process z z If your major premise is rooted in text, such as a statute, then you will need to interpret that statute for the court. The court will always want to start with the language of the statute itself, so that should be your starting point.
400: Lecture 3- Jurisdiction over the Defendant 213 z z Is it more appropriate for the plaintiff or the defendant to bear the extra costs associated with litigating a case far from home? Hess didn’t require a thorough exploration of this question. Nevertheless, the Court’s decision to permit suits against nonresident defendants not served in the forum state suggested that the Court might be moving in that direction. Later cases would make the shift more explicit. Suggested Reading < < Perdue, “Sin, Scandal, and Substantive Due Process.” < < Scalia, “The Rule of Law as a Law of Rules.” Questions to Consider Þ Þ Should a state court always be permitted to assert jurisdiction over a person served with process while present in the state where the court sits?
748: “The Rule of Law as a Law of Rules.” University of Chicago Law Review 56 (1989): 1175-1188. In this short article, Justice Scalia explains the difference between rules and standards, and praises rules for their capacity to constrain judges’ discretion. 397 Bibliography Shapiro, David. Civil Procedure: Preclusion in Civil Actions. New York: Foundation Press, 2001. This book provides a detailed overview of the rules governing issue and claim preclusion, which together govern when a matter can be relitigated. Sullivan, Kathleen. “The Justices of Rules and Standards.” Harvard Law Review 106 (1992): 22-123. This article addresses the difference between rules and standards, and explains how Supreme Court doctrine sometimes embraces the former and other times embraces the latter. Wald, Patricia.